Based on the provided document, here are all the questions, their corresponding options, and the correct answers as indicated in the text.

Section 1: Failure Classifications & Effects
N 18678: According EASA CS the worst effect of a MAJOR FAILURE on the aeroplane could be:
large reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins
slight reduction in functional capabilities of safety margins.
no effect on operational capabilities or safety.
significant reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins. (Correct)
N 6971: According EASA CS the worst effect of a MAJOR FAILURE on the flight crew could be:
a slight increase in workload.
physical discomfort or a significant increase in workload. (Correct)
no effect on flight crew
physical distress or excessive workload, impairs ability to perform tasks.
N 53445: According EASA CS the worst effect of a HAZARDOUS FAILURE on the occupants of an aeroplane excluding flight crew could be:
physical discomfort.
physical distress, possibly including injuries. (Correct)
multiple fatalities.
serious or fatal injury to a small number of passengers or cabin crew.
N 22131: According EASA CS the worst effect of a CATASTROPHIC FAILURE on the aeroplane could be:
slight reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins
significant reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins.
hull loss. (Correct)
large reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins.
N 30746: According EASA CS the worst effect of a HAZARDOUS FAILURE on the aeroplane could be:
hull loss.
slight reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins
large reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins. (Correct)
significant reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins
N 82624: According EASA CS the worst effect of a HAZARDOUS FAILURE on the flight crew could be:
physical distress or excessive workload, impairs ability to perform tasks (Correct) 
a slight increase in workload.
fatalities or incapacitation.
physical discomfort or a significant increase in workload
N 96759: According EASA CS the worst effect of a MINOR FAILURE on the aeroplane could be:
significant reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins.
no effect on operational capabilities or safety
slight reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins (Correct) 
large reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins
N 32224: According EASA CS the worst effect of a CATASTROPHIC FAILURE on the occupants of an aeroplane excluding flight crew could be:
multiple fatalities. (Correct)
physical discomfort.
serious or fatal injury to a small number of passengers or cabin crew.
physical distress, possibly including injuries
N 17254: According EASA CS the worst effect of a MINOR FAILURE on the occupants of an aeroplane excluding flight crew could be:
inconvenience. (Correct)
physical discomfort
serious or fatal injury to a small number of passengers or cabin crew
physical distress, possibly including injuries.
N 86673: According EASA CS the worst effect of a CATASTROPHIC FAILURE on the flight crew could be:
fatalities or incapacitation (Correct) 
physical distress or excessive workload, impairs ability to perform tasks
a slight increase in workload.
physical discomfort or a significant increase in workload
N 50394: According EASA CS the worst effect of a MINOR FAILURE on the flight crew could be:
no effect on flight crew.
a slight increase in workload. (Correct)
physical distress or excessive workload, impairs ability to perform tasks.
physical discomfort or a significant increase in workload

Section 2: Probability Limits
N 45264: According to EASA CS the allowable quantitative average failure probability per flight hour for a CATASTROPHIC FAILURE should be on the order of:
between $10^{-3}$ and $10^{-5}$ (probable)
between $10^{-5}$ and $10^{-7}$ (remote probability)
less than $10^{-9}$ (extremely improbable) (Correct) 
between $10^{-7}$ and $10^{-9}$ (extremely remote probability)
N 12852: According to EASA CS the allowable quantitative average failure probability per flight hour for a HAZARDOUS FAILURE should be on the order of:
between $10^{-7}$ and $10^{-9}$ (extremely remote probability) (Correct) 
less than $10^{-9}$ (extremely improbable)
between $10^{-5}$ and $10^{-7}$ (remote probability)
between $10^{-3}$ and $10^{-5}$ (probable)
N 48793: According to EASA CS the allowable average failure probability per flight hour probability for a MAJOR FAILURE should be on the order of:
between $10^{-7}$ and $10^{-9}$ (extremely remote probability)
less than $10^{-9}$ (extremely improbable)
between $10^{-3}$ and $10^{-5}$ (probable)
between $10^{-5}$ and $10^{-7}$ (remote probability) (Correct) 
N 28938: According EASA CS the allowable average failure probability per flight hour for a MINOR FAILURE should be on the order of:
between $10^{-7}$ and $10^{-9}$ (extremely remote probability)
less than $10^{-9}$ (extremely improbable)
between $10^{-3}$ and $10^{-5}$ (probable) (Correct) 
between $10^{-5}$ and $10^{-7}$ (remote probability)

Section 3: Structural Design Principles (Safe Life, Fail Safe, Damage Tolerant)
N 86423: With regard to an aircraft fuselage, a FAIL SAFE structure is one:
in which the adjacent structural members can carry the load for an unlimited time.
used for small aircraft only.
that is easily manufactured
in which the adjacent structural members can carry the load for a limited time (Correct) 
N 87950: The principle of DAMAGE TOLERANT structural design of an aircraft is based on the:
capability to withstand a certain amount of weakening of the structure without catastrophic failure (Correct) 
monitoring of critical parameters and the replacement of parts if a limit value is exceeded.
fact that there is no need to inspect the structure
replacement of parts after a given number of cycles or hours of use.
N 80278: The principle of the SAFE LIFE design of an aircraft is based on the:
capability to withstand a certain amount of weakening of the structure without catastrophic failure.
monitoring of critical parameters and the replacement of parts if a limit value is exceeded.
redundancy of the structure or equipment.
replacement of parts after a given number of cycles or hours of use. (Correct)
N 55247: Which statements about structural design principles are correct or incorrect?
In structural design, FAIL SAFE implies the structure will never fail.
In structural design, SAFE LIFE implies the structure will never fail during a declared time period or number of cycles.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. (Correct)
N 95257: Which statements about structural design principles are correct or incorrect?
In structural design, FAIL SAFE implies the structure will never fail.
A SAFE LIFE structure is based on a declared time period or number of cycles.

is correct, 2) is correct.
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct (Correct) 

is correct, 2) is incorrect

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect
N 18114: For FAIL SAFE designed structural components:
there is more than one load carrying component
the design is based on the principle of redundancy of components.
1, 4 (Correct) 
2, 3
1, 3
2, 4
N 37338: A SAFE LIFE aircraft structural component:
may be used during a declared number of cycles or flight hours (Correct) 
should have enough strength during the whole lifetime of an aircraft
has parallel load paths.
is so strong that it never will fail during a declared time period
N 35587: Which statements about structural design principles are correct or incorrect?
The DAMAGE TOLERANCE principle assumes cracks in the structure will never occur.
The SAFE LIFE principle is based on the replacement of parts after a given number of cycles or flight hours.
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct (Correct) 

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect
N 28851: For SAFE LIFE designed structural components:
2) one load carrying component is sufficient for a given load, provided it is strong enough.
3) the component is removed at the end of the calculated life time or number of cycles
1, 3
1, 4
2, 4
2, 3 (Correct) 
N 74724: Which statements about structural design principles are correct or incorrect?
In structural design, FAIL SAFE implies parallel structural parts.
In structural design, SAFE LIFE implies the structure will never fail during a declared time period or number of cycles.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
1) is correct, 2) is correct (Correct) 

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
N 8663: The principle of FAIL SAFE design of an aircraft is based on the:
redundancy of the structure or equipment (Correct) 
monitoring of critical parameters and the replacement of parts if a limit value is exceeded.
replacement of parts after a given number of cycles or hours of use.
capability to withstand a certain amount of weakening of the structure without catastrophic failure
N 30781: Which statements are correct or incorrect?
in structural design, FAIL SAFE implies redundant load paths.
A SAFE LIFE structure is based on a declared number of cycles or time period.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.
N 6388: Which statements about structural design principles are correct or incorrect?
The DAMAGE TOLERANCE principle takes cracking of the structure into account.
The SAFE LIFE principle is based on the replacement of parts after a given number of cycles or flight hours.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.
N 23167: Which statements about structural design principles are correct or incorrect?
FAIL SAFE implies redundant load paths.
SAFE LIFE structure is the most favourable method.
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect (Correct) 

is incorrect. 2) is correct

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect

is correct, 2) is correct

Section 4: Loads, Stresses & Components
N 38942: In the attached diagram, which image represents SHEAR FORCE?
4
3
2
1 (Correct) 
N 45317: In the attached diagram, which image represents COMPRESSION?
3 (Correct) 
2
1
4
N 7127: An aircraft in flight is affected by loads. These may be classified as:
compressive, bending, shear and torsional.
tensile, shear, twisting and stretching.
compressive, tensile, shear and torsional. (Correct)
thrust, drag, lift and weight.
N 95363: In the attached diagram, the type of stress acting on the point indicated by the image number 3 is the:
shear.
compression. (Correct)
tension
torque
N 71594: [Violent maneuver scenario with load factor 4.2 vs limit 3.8] ... it might be possible to observe:
a permanent deformation of the structure (Correct) 
rupture of one or more structural components.
an elastic deformation whilst the load was applied, but no permanent distortion
no distortion, permanent or temporary, of the structure.
N 45293: In the attached diagram, which image represents BUCKLING?
2
3
4 (Correct) 
N 73609: Define the term "FATIGUE":
if a material is continually loaded and unloaded it will eventually break even though the load remains the same (Correct) 
a one off loading that breaks the material.
the material suffers progressively more permanent damage each time that it is loaded and unloaded.
a loading on the material but it returns fully to its former state when the load is removed.
N 62684: A corrosive environment and sustained tensile stresses can lead to:
intergranular corrosion.
strain.
creep.
stress corrosion (Correct) 
N 17868: How can you tell when metallic bonding is incorrect?
Static on the radio.
VOR interference.
CB trips.
Corrosion at skin joints. (Correct)
N 25018: A SANDWICH type structure is often used in aircraft design because of its:
ease of deformation under load.
high temperature resistance.
low mass and high stiffness. (Correct)
low mass and low stiffness.
N 81910: Which statements concerning a SANDWICH structural part are correct or incorrect?
The main function of the core material is sound insulation.
A sandwich structural part is well suited for absorbing concentrated loads.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect (Correct) 

is correct, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
N 63782: A structure in which the skin takes all of the load is:
a monocoque structure. (Correct)
a semi-braced structure.
a box structure.
a semi-monocoque structure.
N 50144: Among the different types of aircraft structures, the shell structures efficiently transmit the: (1) normal bending stresses, (3) torsional moment, (4) shear stresses.
1, 2, 4
1, 3, 4 (Correct) 
1, 2, 3
2, 3, 4
N 94470: A SANDWICH structural part is unsuitable for absorbing:
bending loads.
torsional loads.
shear loads.
concentrated loads. (Correct)
N 36989: Which statements about SANDWICH structural parts are correct or incorrect?
A sandwich structural part consists of fibres and a resin.
A sandwich structural part is not suitable for absorbing concentrated loads.

is incorrect. 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is correct. 2) is correct
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. (Correct)
N 58851: The fuselage structure of a pressurised transport aeroplane is an example of a:
sandwich structure.
semi-monocoque structure. (Correct)
truss type structure.
pure monocoque structure.
N 61327: Which statements concerning a SANDWICH structural part are correct or incorrect?
The main function of the core material is to stabilise the covering sheets.
A sandwich structural part is well suited for absorbing concentrated loads.
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is correct, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.
N 16540: Which statements about composite and metal structures are correct or incorrect?
Composite structures will give you the same tensile strength in all directions.
Metal structures will give you higher strength to weight ratios than composite ones.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect
N 82157: A composite structural component consists of:
aluminium alloy with a covering layer of pure aluminium.
two metal sheets bonded together.
two thin metal sheets and a light core material.
a matrix and fibres. (Correct)
N 53148: Which statements about composite and metal structures are correct or incorrect?
In a structural component constructed of composite materials, strength is same in all directions.
Composite materials enable structures with higher strength/weight ratio than metal.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. (Correct)
N 18758: Which statements about composite and metal structures are correct or incorrect?
Composite materials enable strength to be tailored to the direction of the load.
Composite materials enable structures with lower strength/weight ratio than metal.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is correct.
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)
N 53183: Most frequently used materials in a monocoque or semi-monocoque structure?
Wood.
Aluminium or magnesium alloy. (Correct)
Steel.
Composite fibers
N 99260: Stationary on the ground in a hangar, the most important loads on a cantilever wing are:
compression in both the upper and the lower surfaces.
compression in the upper surface, tension in the lower surface.
tension in both the upper and the lower surfaces.
tension in the upper surface, compression in the lower surface. (Correct)
N 25952: One function of a rib is:
to stabilise the fuselage skin against buckling.
to carry tensile load of the fuselage pressure hull.
to maintain the aerodynamic shape of the wing. (Correct)
to be the primary structural member to carry wings loads.
N B7441: When a wing bends downwards, aileron flutter might occur if the aileron deflects:
downwards, because the location of the aileron centre of gravity lies behind the hinge line.
upwards, because the location of the aileron centre of gravity lies in front of the hinge line.
downwards, because the location of the aileron centre of gravity lies in front of the hinge line.
upwards, because the location of the aileron centre of gravity lies behind the hinge line. (Correct)
N 25487: When a wing bends upwards, aileron flutter might occur if the aileron deflects:
downwards, because the location of the aileron centre of gravity lies in front of the hinge line.
upwards, because the location of the aileron centre of gravity lies in front of the hinge line.
upwards, because the location of the aileron centre of gravity lies behind the hinge line.
downwards, because the location of the aileron centre of gravity lies behind the hinge line (Correct) 
N 85377: The function of ribs in a wing structure is to:
allow installation of fuel cells in the wing.
withstand the torsional loads
give the wing the desired aerodynamic shape. (Correct)
withstand all the structural loads.
N 17519: One design method to avoid control surface flutter is:
through the correct use of balance tabs.
ensuring correct mass distribution within the control surface. (Correct)
providing the wing structure with sufficient flexibility.
through the correct use of trim tabs.
N 26440: A cantilever wing is:
a low wing configuration.
a high wing configuration.
a wing with a rectangular planform.
a wing attached to the fuselage at the wing root only. (Correct)
N 61674: On a non-stressed skin type wing, elements which take up vertical bending moments Mx are:
ribs
spars (Correct) 
skin
stringers
N 57421: The two deformation modes that cause wing flutter are:
torsion and shearing.
shearing and elongation.
bending and elongation.
torsion and bending. (Correct)
N 20511: A non-cantilever wing is:
a wing planform other than rectangular.
a wing supported by braces or a strut connected to the fuselage. (Correct)
a high wing configuration.
a low wing configuration.
N 96847: To achieve control flutter damping the balance mass must be located:
directly above the control surface hinge.
in front of the control surface hinge. (Correct)
behind the control surface hinge.
directly below the control surface hinge.
N 33151: A wing spar typically consists of:
ribs and stiffeners.
a web and girders. (Correct)
frames and webs.
ribs and frames.
N 98218: Wing with engines under wings; loading on the front spar of the torsion box from root to tip is:
compression.
tension, and then compression.
tension.
compression, and then tension. (Correct)
N 1758: When wing skin cannot carry loads, elements which carry the bending moment are:
the spars. (Correct)
the webs.
the rivets.
the ribs.
N 49175: Correct statement about wing structure?
A semi-monocoque structure consists of the skin and frames.
The slats are a part of the torsion box.
A wing main spar consists of a web with stringers.
A torsion box is formed by wing spars, ribs and wing skin reinforced by stringers. (Correct)
N 67398: Load in upper/lower girder of a spar (cantilever wing) during straight and level flight?
Tension in lower- and upper girder.
Tension in the upper girder and compression in the lower girder.
Torsion in the lower- and upper girder.
Compression in the upper girder and tension in the lower girder. (Correct)
N 20474: In straight and level flight the most important loads on a cantilever wing are:
compression in the upper surface, tension in the lower surface. (Correct)
compression in both the upper and the lower surfaces.
tension in the upper surface, compression in the lower surface.
tension in both the upper and the lower surfaces
N 22526: In flight, bending moment on a cantilever wing containing fuel is:
highest at the wing root. (Correct)
lowest at the wing root.
equal to half weight multiplied by semi-span.
equal to zero fuel weight multiplied by span.
N 25687: Bending loads on a cantilever wing due to lift are carried by: (1) upper skin, (2) lower skin, (4) spar or spars.
1, 2, 4 (Correct) 
1, 3, 4
3, 4
2, 3
N 34164: Control surface flutter avoided by: (1) high torsional stiffness, (3) balancing mass in front of hinge.
2, 3
1, 4
2, 4
1, 3 (Correct) 
N 84609: Significant torsion effects on a wing during flight can be caused by:
wing dihedral.
propwash.
wing tip vortices.
aileron deflection. (Correct)
N 17907: Highest load on the torsion link in a bogie gear is experienced:
when gear is selected down.
on touchdown with a strong crosswind.
while turning on the ground with a small radius. (Correct)
when braking with an inoperative anti-skid system
N 68670: Engine compartment decking and firewalls are typically manufactured from:
asbestos blankets.
stainless steel or titanium sheet (Correct) 
composite materials (carbon, kevlar, glass).
aluminium alloy sheet.
N 18906: The inner layer of a heated windscreen is made of:
glass.
soft polycarbonate. (Correct)
triplex.
hard perspex.
N 45670: A semi-monocoque aircraft fuselage structure usually consists of:
ribs, spars, skin.
frames, fittings, stringers.
skin, frames, stringers. (Correct)
ribs, front spat, rear spar.
N 6182: The pressurisation load on the skin of a fuselage is:
torsion.
tension. (Correct)
compression.
bending
N 38640: Purpose of stringers used in fuselage construction is to:
provide attachment for sound and thermal insulation.
assist the skin absorb longitudinal compressive loads. (Correct)
carry pressurisation loads and convert them to tensile stress.
absorb shear stresses.
N 15117: An electrically heated windscreen is manufactured from:
perspex/polycarbonate laminate with gold element.
boron aluminide and glass laminate.
triple glass sheets grain at $45^{\circ}$.
a glass and polycarbonate laminate. (Correct)
N 3440: Loads on the cylindrical part of the fuselage during pressurisation are carried by:
stringers.
skin. (Correct)
spars.
ribs.
N 60223: Three elements of the fuselage structure of a large transport aeroplane?
skin, ribs, formers.
skin, frames, stringers. (Correct)
skin, girders, webs.
skin, spars, ribs
N 83672: Windshield heating of a transport aeroplane is:
used only at low altitudes.
not affecting strength.
only used when hot-air defogging insufficient.
essential to improve the strength of the cockpit windows. (Correct)
N 9703: Reason long distance planes cannot simply be used for high frequency short hauls?
lifetime of fatigue sensitive parts based on determined load spectrum. (Correct)
empty fuel tanks stress structure.
consume too much fuel.
checklists take too much time.

Section 5: Systems & Formulas
N 95294: Principle of ON CONDITION maintenance is based on:
capability to withstand weakening.
redundancy.
replacement after set hours/cycles.
monitoring of critical parameters and replacement if limit exceeded. (Correct)
N 74979: What is 'hard time' maintenance?
component monitored for parameters.
component overhauled/replaced after set number of hours, cycles, or operations. (Correct)
replaced at percentage of predicted life.
overhauled when convenient.
N 91102: Hydraulic power is a function of:
pump RPM only.
system pressure and volume flow. (Correct)
system pressure and tank capacity.
pump size and volume flow.
N 46706: Hydraulic pressure can be described as:
$force \times area^2$
$force \times 2 - area$
$force \div area$ (Correct) 
$force \times area$
N 55988: [Piston A ($2~cm^2$) vs Piston B ($10~cm^2$)] If Piston B moves down 5 cm, Piston A moves:
25 cm (Correct) 
0.5 cm
5 cm
10 cm
N 45120: [Refer to diagram 021-02] The balancing force required on the right hand side is:
1 N
20 N
100 N (Correct) 
1000 N
Here are the questions extracted from the document with their respective options and the correct answers marked:
Q96/934
In a hydraulic system, the reservoir is pressurized in order to:
keep the hydraulic fluid at optimum temperature.
prevent pump cavitation (correct) 
reduce fluid combustibility.
seal the system.
097/934
Hydraulic fluid should have the following characteristic:
low thermal stability.
low flash-point.
incompressibility. (correct) 
high volatility
98/934
Purposes of an accumulator in an hydraulic system are:
to damp pressure fluctuations.
to cool the hydraulic fluid.
to serve as a limited alternate source of pressure.
to serve as a main pressure source for normal operation.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statement is:
2,4
1,4
2,3
1,3 (correct) 
99/934
The reservoirs of a hydraulic system of a transport aircraft are typically pressurized:
by the air conditioning system.
by an auxiliary system.
by bleed air coming from the turbine-engine. (correct) 
in flight only
100/934
Hydraulic fluid in the reservoir is slightly pressurised to:
prevent cavitation in the pump (correct) 
ensure sufficient pump output.
prevent vapour locking.
prevent overheating of the pump.
Q101/934
The function of a hydraulic selector valve is to:
direct system pressure to either side of the piston of an actuator (correct) 
automatically activate the hydraulic system.
select the system to which the hydraulic pump should supply pressure
discharge some hydraulic fluid if the system pressure is too high
0102/934
The hydraulic device, which functions in a comparable (similar) way to an electronic diode, is a:
check valve (correct) 
shutoff valve.
flow control valve.
distribution valve
103/934
A single action actuator:
travels one direction under one application of hydraulic power and in the opposite direction under a second application of hydraulic power.
is powered in one direction only by hydraulic power, the return movement being under spring force. (correct) 
is a one shot actuator used for emergency systems only.
cannot be used for variable position operations as it is designed to lock in the extremities of travel.
104/934
To protect against excessive system pressure, a hydraulic system usually incorporates:
a pressure relief valve. (correct) 
an automatic cut out valve.
a non-return valve.
an accumulator
Q1057934
The component that converts hydraulic pressure into linear motion is called:
a hydraulic pump.
a pressure regulator.
an actuator or jack. (correct) 
an accumulator
106/934
Which of these statements about an aeroplane's hydraulic system is correct?
The hydraulic reservoir contains a membrane and is pressurised by nitrogen on one side of this membrane.
A hydraulic leak in a return line does not affect the functioning of the hydraulic system.
The pumps are always electrically driven because they need to deliver a high pressure of 3000 psi.
The filters, the pressure relief valve(s), the by-pass valve(s). and the fire shut-off valve are safety features installed in a typical system. (correct) 
707/934
When powering up a hydraulic system, the level in the reservoir will:
always remain the same.
initially increase with system pressurisation.
decrease slightly. (correct) 
increase as ambient temperature decreases.
1087934
Hydraulic fluids most frequently used in the systems of modern large transport airplanes are:
vegetable base fluids.
water base fluids.
phosphate ester base fluids. (correct) 
mineral base fluids.
109/934
Filters in hydraulic systems often incorporate pop out indicators to:
warn of a hydraulic system overheat.
warn of an impending by-pass situation. (correct) 
indicate that the filter is clogged and unfiltered oil is passing around the system.
indicate that the filter is due for maintenance
110/934
Which types of hydraulic fluids are commonly used in civil aviation?
mineral only
synthetic only
synthetic & mineral (correct) 
vegetable only
111/934
A modern hydraulic system typically includes "hydraulic fuses". Their function is:
to prevent total system loss in case of a leaking hydraulic line. (correct) 
to allow by-passing of a hydraulic pump in case it is subject to excessive pressure, without further damage to the system.
to switch to the secondary system in case of a leak in the primary brake system.
to isolate a part of the system and protect it against accidental contamination.
112/934
Hydraulic fluids must have the following characteristics:
thermal stability.
low emulsifying characteristics.
non-corrosive.
good resistance to combustion.
high compressibility.
high volatility.
high viscosity.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
2,3,4,5
1,2,5,7
1,2,3,4 (Note: Correct combination from options) 
1,3,4,6
0113/934
Axial piston pumps are often used in hydraulic systems due to:
the safety feature of the quill drive shearing due to pump seizure and the ease of repair by replacement of pump and shaft only.
their ability to produce high pressure combined with constant high flow rate.
their ability to produce high pressure when required but can be off loaded to reduce power consumption. (correct) 
their low cost, simplicity and durability
Q114/934
The type of hydraulic fluid most frequently used in the hydraulic systems of modern transport aeroplanes is:
Synthetic oil (correct) 
Mineral oil.
Mixture of mineral oil and alcohol.
Vegetable oil
115/934
Large transport aircraft hydraulic systems usually operate with a system pressure of approximately:
2000 psi
1000 psi
3000 psi (correct) 
4000 psi
116/934
In a typical hydraulic system, the overheat detectors are usually installed:
in the reservoirs.
at the pumps. (correct) 
at the coolers.
at the actuators
Q117/934
In hydraulic systems of large modern transport category aircraft the fluids used are:
vegetable oil.
mineral oil.
synthetic oil (correct) 
water and glycol
Q118/934
Which statement comprises the favourable qualities of hydraulic fluid?
High flash point, low volatility, low compressibility, low viscosity and low flammability. (correct) 
Low flash point, high volatility, high compressibility, low viscosity and low flammability.
High flash point, high volatility, low compressibility, high viscosity and low flammability.
Low flash point, low volatility, high compressibility, low viscosity and high flammability.
Q119/934
Internal leakage in a hydraulic system will cause:
an increased fluid temperature (correct) 
an increased fluid pressure.
a decreased fluid temperature.
fluid loss
120/934
The Ram Air Turbine (RAT) provides emergency hydraulic power for:
nose wheel steering after the aeroplane has landed.
flight controls in the event of loss of engine driven hydraulic power. (correct) 
flap extension only.
undercarriage selection and automatic brake system.
121/934
Refer to figure 021-14. In the typical hydraulic system represented by the illustration, assuming hydraulic pressure throughout and no internal leakage:
the jack will move to the left due to pressure acting on differential areas.
a condition of hydraulic lock exists and no movement of the jack will take place. (correct) 
since pressures are equal, the jack is free to move in response to external forces.
the jack will move to the right due to equal pressure acting on differential areas.
122/934
For an aeroplane hydraulic supply circuit, the correct statement is:
the security components comprise the filters, the pressure relief valves, the by-passes, and the fire shut-off valve. (correct) 
the reservoir constitutes a reserve of hydraulic fluid maintained under pressure by a pneumatic back pressure (air or nitrogen) and destined to serve as a fluid or pressure reserve.
the regulation system deals only with emergency operation and is not applied to all hydraulic services but only those considered as essential.
the pumps are always electric due to the high pressures which they must deliver (140 to 210 kg/cm²).
1237934
Should a hydraulic pump seize during operation:
the inner barrel of the pump will rotate thus offloading and protecting the gearbox.
a red light will illuminate in the cockpit to warn the pilot of the failure.
the quill drive will shear to offload and protect the gearbox (correct) 
the freewheel unit will disengage the pump from the gearbox.
124/934
In hydraulic system, a SHUTTLE VALVE:
allows two units to be operated by one pressure source.
is a non-return valve.
enables an alternate system to operate the same actuators in case of normal system failure. (correct) 
regulates pump delivery pressure
Q125/434
An accumulator in a hydraulic system will:
reduce fluid temperature and pressure.
increase pressure surges within the system.
reduce fluid temperature only.
store fluid under pressure and allows for thermal expansion. (correct) 
1267934
Hydraulic fluids:
are irritating to eyes and skin. (correct) 
are highly viscous.
are highly flammable.
can be used in the lubrication system.
Q127/934
The accumulator in a hydraulic system works as:
a pressure storage.
a volume storage.
a fluid storage.
an energy storage. (correct) 
Q128/934
Hydraulic fluids used in aircraft are mainly synthetic and mineral fluids. Can both types of fluids be used together?
No, the system needs to be flushed out first.
Yes, in any case.
No, because the system components are specifically made for use of one of them (correct) 
Yes, if the aircraft is certified for the use of both types.
Q129/934
A pressure regulator is used in a hydraulic system:
to ensure that an equal pressure flow is delivered to critical components such as servo actuators.
in conjunction with a variable delivery type pump.
as an interface between the system and the cockpit indicators.
in conjunction with a constant delivery type pump. (correct) 
130/934
Refer to figure 021-21. The hydraulic system that works correctly is shown in:
diagram 2 (correct) 
diagram 3
diagram 1
diagram 4
131/934
Shuttle valves will automatically:
switch hydraulically operated units to the most appropriate pressure supply. (correct) 
reduce pump loads.
shut down systems which are overloaded.
guard systems against over-pressure
132/934
The viscosity of a hydraulic fluid should be:
the lowest to provide excellent lubrication properties.
the highest to minimize power consumption and resistance to flow.
the lowest to minimize power consumption and resistance to flow. (correct) 
the highest to provide excellent lubrication properties.
133/934
One of the functions of an accumulator in a hydraulic system is:
to store fluid.
to act as a pressure relief valve.
to damp pressure surges in the system. (correct) 
to store pressure.
[Next Question - Color]
The color of a fresh synthetic hydraulic fluid is:
purple (correct) 
blue
pink
yellow/straw
135/934
Different types of hydraulic fluids can be mixed. This statement is:
true.
true, but only vegetable and mineral hydraulic fluids can be mixed.
Synthetic hydraulic fluids for high performance systems must not be mixed with any other type of fluid.
true, mineral and synthetic hydraulic fluids can be mixed but vegetable fluids must not be mixed with any other type of fluid.
false. (correct) 
136/934
How can the pressure of hydraulic fluid be indicated in transport aircraft?
Aneroid capsule and gearing
Pressure transducer (correct) 
Capacitance-based
Bourdon tube and gearing
137/934
Hydraulic fluids should have the following characteristics:
thermal stability.
anti-corrosive.
high flash-point.
high compressibility.
high volatility.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
1,2,3 (correct) 
1,2,5
1,4,5
2,3,4
138/934
Parameters to monitor a hydraulic system in the cockpit can be:
pressure and hydraulic pump output.
pressure, fluid temperature and quantity. (correct) 
pressure and fluid viscosity.
pressure and RPM of the hydraulic pump.
Q139/934
A hydraulic low pressure alert is the first indication of:
the hydraulic system accumulator becoming deflated.
the reservoir level being at a minimum acceptable level.
a leak in the reservoir return line.
the pump output pressure being insufficient. (correct) 
140/934
Filtration in a hydraulic system is usually ensured by:
a filter on the return line only.
filters in both the pressure and return lines. (correct) 
the use of sealed containers only during replenishment.
a filter in the pressure line only.
Q141/934
The type of hydraulic fluid which has the highest resistance against cavitation is:
synthetic fluid. (correct) 
mineral oil based fluid.
vegetable oil based fluid.
water and glycol based fluid.
142/934
Viscosity is:
the pressure resistance of a liquid.
the temperature dependence of a liquid.
the flow velocity inside the hydraulic lines.
the tendency of a liquid or gas to resist flow. (correct) 
143/934
An aural alert is generated by a landing gear extension system when:
flying too fast with the gear extended.
attempting to retract gear while on the ground (weight on wheels).
not retracting gear after take-off.
attempting to perform a landing with the gear retracted. (correct) 
144/934
Overcentre mechanisms in landing gear systems are used to:
lock the landing gear in the up position only.
lock the landing gear in the up and/or down positions. (correct) 
ensure that the nose-wheel does not exceed the maximum steering arc.
ensure the nose wheel is positioned fore and aft prior to retraction
Q145/934
$V_{LE}$ is the maximum:
flight speed with landing gear down. (correct) 
speed at which the landing gear can be operated with full safety.
speed authorized in flight.
speed with flaps extended in a given position.
146/934
Generally, on modern jet transport aeroplanes, if there is a complete hydraulic system failure, the landing gear can be extended by:
gravity extension. (correct) 
alternate electrical extension.
hydraulic accumulators.
alternate pneumatic extension.
Q147/934
A red or an amber light on an undercarriage position indicator signifies:
all wheels are up and locked.
at least one wheel is in the travelling or unlocked condition. (correct) 
all wheels are down and locked.
the landing has been selected down using the emergency extension system.
145/934 (Repeated Numbering)
In some aircraft, there is a protection device to avoid the landing gear being inadvertently retracted on the ground. It consists of:
a bolt.
an aural warning horn.
a warning light which is activated by the WOW (Weight On Wheels) sensor system.
a latch located in the landing gear lever. (correct) 
149/934
The illumination of the green landing gear light indicates that the landing gear is:
locked-down and its door is locked.
not in the required position.
locked-down. (correct) 
in the required position.
150/934
The systems used for emergency extension of landing systems may comprise of:
compressed CO₂.
compressed nitrogen.
compressed oxygen.
auxiliary hydraulic system.
free-fall (gravity).
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
1,2,5
2,4,5 (correct) 
1,3,4
2,3,4
151/934
A torsion link assembly is installed on the landing gear to:
control the wheels.
lock the landing gear.
absorb the spring tension.
avoid rotation of the piston rod relative to the gear oleo strut (correct) 
152/934
$V_{LO}$ is the maximum:
speed at which the landing gear can be operated with full safety. (correct) 
flight speed with landing gear down
speed with flaps extended in a given position.
cruising speed not to be exceeded except in still air with caution.
1597924 (Question Identifier Variant)
The purpose of the oil and the nitrogen in an oleo-pneumatic landing gear strut is:
the oil supplies the damping function and the nitrogen supplies the spring function (correct) 
the oil supplies the damping and lubrication function, the nitrogen supplies the heat-dissipation function
the oil supplies the sealing and lubrication function, the nitrogen supplies the damping function.
the oil supplies the spring function and the nitrogen supplies the damping function.
154/934
Refer to figure 021-06. Associate the correct legend to each of the numbered diagrams:

cantilever, 2) dual wheels, 3) half-fork 4) fork
1) cantilever, 2) fork, 3) half-fork, 4) dual wheels (correct) 

half-fork; 2) for; 3) cantilever; 4) tandem

half-fork; 2) single trace; 3) cantilever; 4) dual wheels
[Shock Absorber Question]
The damping element in a landing gear shock absorber used on large aircraft is:
oxygen
oil (correct) 
nitrogen
springs
158/14
In a typical commercial transport aircraft the landing gear operating system is usually:
pneumatically driven.
hydraulically driven (correct) 
electrically driven.
mechanically driven.
[Shimmy Question]
Shimmy occurs on the nose wheel landing gear during taxiing when the wheels:
tend to describe a sinusoidal motion on the ground.
no longer respond to the pilot's actions.
This effect is overcome by means of:
the torque link.
an accumulator associated with the steering cylinder.
The combination of correct statements is:
1,4 (correct) 
1,3
2,3
2,4
[Nose Wheel Shimmy Description]
"Nose wheel shimmy" may be described as:
aircraft vibration caused by the nose wheel upon extension of the gear
the oscillatory movement of the nose wheel when moving on the ground (correct) 
a possibly damaging vibration of the nose wheel when extended prior landing
the amount of free movement of the nose wheel before steering takes effect.
[Anti-skid with Autobrakes]
Must the anti-skid system be available when using autobrakes?
No, if thrust reverser are used.
No
No, if brake pedals are used.
Yes. (correct) 
[Hydraulic Brake Gauge]
Hydraulic brake system of transport aircraft: assuming an accumulator is pre-charged to 1000 psi and the hydraulic system is pressurized to 1500 psi, the accumulator gauge will read:
500 psi
1500 psi (correct) 
1000 psi
2000 psi
[Autobrake Disconnect]
The autobrake system:
will disconnect by pressing the pedals. (correct) 
can only be disconnected by the pilot if the switch is set to OFF position.
will disconnect automatically by turning on the ground (e.g. leaving the runway)
will disconnect automatically below a certain speed
[Hydraulic Pump Gauge Reading]
In a hydraulic brake system of a transport aircraft, an accumulator is pre-charged to 1200 psi. If an electrically driven hydraulic pump is started and provides a system pressure of 3000 psi, the pressure gauge, which is connected to the gas section of the accumulator, will read:
1800 psi
1200 psi
4200 psi
3000 psi (correct) 
[RTO Autobrake Reaction]
How is an autobrake system going to react in case of an aborted take-off and if RTO mode has been selected?
The RTO mode will activate maximum braking at any speed, as soon as the throttles are moved to idle position.
The RTO mode will activate maximum braking with anti-skid above a certain speed, as soon as the take-off is rejected and the throttles are moved to idle position. (correct) 
The RTO mode will activate braking action depending on the remaining runway length...
The RTO mode will activate braking action depending on the remaining runway length, as soon as the take-off is rejected.
[Hydroplaning Friction]
During hydroplaning, the friction coefficient between tire and runway surface is approximately:
0.5
0 (correct) 
1
0.25
[Autobrake Deactivation Statements]
The autobrake system is deactivated:
below a preset minimum speed.
when reverse thrust is activated.

is correct, 2) is incorrect
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect (correct combination from options) 

is correct, 2) is correct

is incorrect, 2) is correct
[Braking Power Source]
On most large aircraft, the main source of braking power is derived from:
the electrical system
the hydraulic system. (correct) 
bleed air pressure.
pressure to the rudder pedals
[Taxiing with Armed Autobrakes]
An airplane is taxiing with armed autobrakes (RTO mode) but needs to brake hard at a low speed before reaching the runway. What happens to the autobrake system?
The RTO mode will remain armed. (correct) 
The autobrake system kicks in and brakes.
The autobrake system remains armed and it is not possible to brake normally below 15 kts.
The autobrake system is disarmed automatically.
[Accumulator Function in Brake System]
The function of an accumulator in a hydraulic brake system is:
to function as a buffer to assist the hydraulic system during heavy braking
to damp pressure fluctuations of the autobrake system
to supply a limited amount of brake energy in the event of loss of all hydraulic systems supplying the brakes. (correct) 
to store the hydraulic energy recovered by the anti-skid system to prevent wheel locking.
[Autobrake Disconnect during Landing]
The autobrake system is disconnected during landing:
after a preset elapsed time.
below a specific speed.
when selecting the reverse thrust
by pilot action. (correct) 
[Autobrake Level Settings]
An autobrake system offers different level settings. What is correct about these levels?
If maximum braking action is required during landing, the RTO setting will be used.
If the autobrake is set to a low braking power level, the autobrake will start to work with a delay.
On dry runways, the deceleration rate will be higher with maximum pedal input than with maximum autobrake setting. (correct) 
The low level is used, especially for wet and slippery runways.
[Anti-skid Computer Input]
The modern anti-skid processes are based on the use of a computer whose input data is:
idle wheel speed (measured).
braked wheel speed (measured).
brake temperature (measured).
desired idle wheel train slipping rate.
tire pressure.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
1, 2, 3, 4, 5
1, 3
2, 4
1, 2, 4 (correct combination from options) 
[Autobrake Automatic Application]
The autobrake system automatically applies the level of braking selected together with anti-skid facilities:
only if spin-up of all wheels has been detected.
if manual wheel spin-up occurs or weight on wheels switch is activated.
if nose wheel spin-up has been detected.
if main wheel spin-up has been detected (correct) 
[Unserviceable Anti-skid Effect]
What effect would an unserviceable anti-skid system have on the aeroplane's landing performance?
The lack of anti-skid would increase the landing distance significantly (correct) 
The landing distance would only be adversely affected on a wholly wet runway.
The pilot's own braking action is always most effective.
The landing distance would only be adversely affected on a wholly dry runway.
[Lost Main Hydraulic Source]
You have lost your main hydraulic brake source. On most large and modern transport aeroplanes what system will take over and enables you to brake?
Accumulators only.
An alternate hydraulic system (correct) 
Thrust reverser.
Braking parachute.
[Brake Unit Type]
The type of brake unit most frequently found on transport category aeroplanes is a:
multiple disk brake (correct) 
single disk brake
drum type brake.
belt brake.
[Tubeless Tire Characteristics]
A tubeless tire is a tire:
which requires solid or branched wheels.
whose valve can be sheared in sudden accelerations.
whose mounting rim must be flawless.
which requires no rim protection between rim flange and tire removing device.
which does not burst in the event of a tire puncture.
which eliminates internal friction between the tube and the tire.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
2, 3, 6
3, 4, 5
1, 5, 6 (correct combination from options) 
1, 2, 5
[Under-inflated Tire]
An under-inflated tire will:
experience reduced wear at the shoulders.
have an increased hydroplaning speed.
be more subject to viscous aquaplaning
experience increased wear at the shoulders (correct) 
[Thermal Plugs Reason]
The reason for fitting thermal plugs to aeroplane wheels is that they:
prevent heat transfer from the brake disks to the tires
prevent tire burst after excessive brake application (correct) 
release air from the tire in the event of overpressure due to over-inflation.
prevent the brakes from overheating
[Fusible Plug Function]
The function of a fusible plug is to:
protect the brake against brake disk fusion due to excessive temperature
function as a special circuit breaker in the electric system
protect against excessive pressure in the pneumatic system
protect the tire against explosion due to excessive temperature (correct) 
[Tire Creep]
Tire "creep" may be described as the:
decrease in inflation pressure due to increase in ambient temperature.
increase in inflation pressure due to decrease in ambient temperature.
gradual circumferential increase of tire wear.
circumferential movement of the tire in relation to the wheel flange (correct) 
[Tubeless vs Inner Tube Tire]
Compared to a tire fitted with an inner tube, a tubeless tire presents the following characteristics:
high heating
valve fragility
lower risk of bursting.
better adjustment to wheels.
The combination containing all the correct statements is:
2, 4
1, 2, 3, 4
3, 4 (correct) 
2, 3
[Thermal Plugs Installation]
Thermal plugs are installed in:
the axles.
the tyres.
the wheels (correct) 
the dampers
[Tire Burst Protection]
To avoid the risk of tire burst from overheating there is:
a pressure relief valve situated in the filler valve.
the "Emergency Burst" function of the anti-skid system that adapts braking to the tire temperature
a thermal plug that deflates the tire at a specific temperature. (correct) 
water injection triggered at a fixed temperature in order to lower tire temperature.
[Thermal Plugs Location]
Thermal plugs are installed in:
cargo compartments
fire warning systems.
cabin windows.
wheel rims (correct) 
[Reversible Actuator]
A flight control surface actuator is said to be "reversible" when:
there is feedback to the pilot's controls of the aerodynamic forces acting on the control surface (correct) 
the pilot does not feel any force when moving that flight control surface in flight.
there is a need to have an artificial feel system.
the flight control system has an alternate means of control in case of a control jam.
[Gust Lock System Statements]
Which of these statements about a gust lock system are correct or incorrect?
Irreversible flight controls should have a gust lock.
There is no need for a gust lock on manual flight controls.

is correct, 2) is correct

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. (correct) 
[Trimming Large Aeroplanes]
Most large conventional aeroplanes are not provided with aileron and rudder trim tabs. Is it still possible to trim these control surfaces?
Yes, but trimming is only possible when before the flight, the respective auxiliary surfaces are correctly adjusted for cruising conditions by the maintenance department.
Yes, trimming is possible by adjusting the neutral point of the artificial feel mechanism by means of a trim switch (correct) 
No, because without trim tabs trimming is not possible.
Yes, but trimming is only possible when the autopilot is engaged.
[Untrue Statement - Manual Flight Controls]
Which of the following statements is UNTRUE?
Manual flying control systems rarely have redundancy built into them.
Aerodynamic forces mean that the control loads increase with airspeed.
Jammed controls may cause an accident.
Manual flying control systems are complex. (This statement is identified as untrue) 
[Irreversible Flight Controls Requirement]
An aeroplane equipped with irreversible flight controls:
must be equipped with control locks.
requires an artificial feel system (correct) 
may be equipped with simple spring type feel units on all flight controls.
does not require an artificial feel system.
[Gust Lock System Correct Statement]
Which of these statements regarding most gust lock systems is correct?
A gust lock can be used in flight to reduce the effect of turbulence.
On reversible flight controls, there is no need for a gust lock.
A gust lock is only fitted on the elevator and the rudder.
When the gust lock is ON there is protection to prevent take off (correct) 
[Hydraulic Valve Function]
What is the function of hydraulic valves in fully powered control systems?
They only provide the pilot with an "artificial feel feedback.
They directly cause a movement of the control surface.
They act on the actuator of the control surface. (correct) 
They decrease the control force generated by the cables or pushrods.
Based on the provided document, here are the extracted questions, options, and their marked correct answers:
Question (N92786): An aeroplane equipped with fully powered flight controls (irreversible type): 
does not require the use of an artificial feel system. 
must be equipped with control locks 
remains normally controllable in case of total loss of power to the flight control system. 
requires the use of an artificial feel system. (Correct)
Question (N 34191): Which of these statements about rudder limiting are correct or incorrect? 1) A rudder ratio changer system reduces the rudder deflection for a given rudder pedal deflection as the IAS increases. 2) A variable stop system limits both rudder and rudder pedal deflection as the IAS increases: 
1) is correct, 2) is correct (Correct) 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 87074): PRIMARY flight controls are: 
control wheel or stick, rudder pedals, flap lever and throttle 
ailerons, elevators, rudder and flaps 
control wheel or stick, rudder pedals and speed brake 
ailerons, elevators and rudder (Correct) 
Question (N24779): Trimming of aileron and rudder in an irreversible flight control system: 
is achieved by adjusting the neutral point of the flight control actuator 
is achieved by adjusting the "zero force point" of the feel system (Correct) 
is not necessary. 
is not possible. 
Question (N 24222): Which of these statements about a gust lock system are correct or incorrect? 1) There is no need for a gust lock on irreversible flight controls. 2) Manual flight controls should have a gust lock. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct (Correct) 
Question (N 34508): The expression "primary flight control" applies to the: 1) elevator, 2) speed brake, 3) lift-augmentation devices, 4) roll spoilers. 
1, 4 (Correct) 
2, 4 
2, 3 
1, 2, 3, 4 
Question (N10919): Which of these statements about rudder limiting are correct or incorrect? 1) A rudder ratio changer system limits both rudder and rudder pedal deflection as the IAS increases. 2) A variable stop system reduces the rudder deflection for a given rudder pedal deflection as the IAS increases. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect (Correct) 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Question (N20131): Which of these statements about trimming in an irreversible flight control system of a conventional aeroplane are correct or incorrect? 1) The zero force position of the control column changes when using the pitch trim. 2) The zero force position of the control wheel changes when using the aileron trim. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct (Correct) 
Question (N45755): Which of these statements about rudder limiting are correct or incorrect? 1) A rudder ratio changer system reduces the rudder deflection for a given rudder pedal deflection as the IAS decreases. 2) A variable stop system limits both rudder and rudder pedal deflection as the IAS increases. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct (Correct) 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (H 56327): A flight control surface actuator is said to be "irreversible" when: 
there is a need to lock the flight controls on the ground. 
there is no feedback to the pilot's controls of the aerodynamic forces acting on the control surface (Correct) 
the flight control system has an alternate means of control in case of a control jam. 
the pilot does not feel any force when moving that control surface in flight. 
Question (N 41958): An artificial feel unit is necessary in the pitch channel of a flight control system when: 
the elevators are actuated by irreversible servo-control units (Correct) 
the elevators are actuated by reversible servo-control units. 
there is a trimmable stabilizer. 
the elevators are fitted with servo-tabs or trim tabs. 
Question (N 61459): Which of these statements about a gust lock system are correct or incorrect? 1) A gust lock can be used in flight to reduce the effects of turbulence. 2) There is no need for a gust lock on reversible flight controls. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect (Correct) 
Question (76308): Given a conventional transport aeroplane with irreversible flight controls on the ground with engines running. Which of these statements about rudder trim actuation is correct? 
The "zero force point" of the artificial feel system changes, the rudder does not move. 
The rudder moves, the rudder pedals move in the corresponding direction (Correct) 
The rudder trim tab moves and the rudder pedals do not move. 
The rudder moves, the rudder pedals do not move. 
Question (N57273): The function of the rudder limiter system is: 
to reduce pilot's workload during engine failure. 
to restrict the rudder deflection during flight at high altitudes. 
to restrict rudder deflection during flight at high IAS (Correct) 
to limit pedal movement in heavy turbulence. 
Question (N 91207): Rudder trim adjustment in an aeroplane with irreversible flight controls is: 
an adjustment of the zero force rudder position (Correct) 
unnecessary because this aeroplane does not need rudder trim. 
an adjustment of the rudder trim tab. 
an adjustment of the rudder ratio changer. 
Question (N 18905): Most transport aeroplanes are provided with protection against control jamming. This means that: 
seized brakes can be released from the cockpit. 
the flight control system has provisions to disconnect the part of the control system that becomes blocked (Correct) 
the aeroplane is protected against the adverse effects of strong electromagnetic radiation. 
in case of seizure, engine control is taken over automatically by an alternate electric circuit. 
Question (N48914): An aeroplane equipped with reversible flight controls: 
is equipped with simple spring type feel units. 
does not have mechanical back-up. 
need not be equipped with a separate gust lock system. 
does not require an artificial feel system (Correct) 
Question (M32010): Which of these statements about a gust lock system are correct or incorrect? 1) There should be suitable design precautions to prevent flight with the gust lock engaged. 2) Reversible flight controls should have a gust lock. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct (Correct) 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 08492): Which of these statements about trimming in an irreversible flight control system of a conventional aeroplane are correct or incorrect? 1) The zero force position of the control column does not change when using the pitch trim. 2) The zero force position of the control wheel does not change when using the aileron trim. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect (Correct) 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N61488): Given an aeroplane with irreversible primary flight controls, how is control maintained if one hydraulic system is lost due to a hydraulic leak? 
Sufficient reserve hydraulic fluid is available to compensate the effects of the leak. 
The remaining systems will take over control (Correct) 
By switching to manual back-up mode. 
By switching the flight control system to the reversible mode. 
Question (N 14199): The expression "primary flight control" applies to the: 1) stabilizer, 2) rudder, 3) speed brake, 4) aileron. 
1, 4 
2, 3 
2, 4 (Correct) 
1, 2, 3, 4 
Question (N53610): An aeroplane equipped with irreversible flight controls: 
does not require an artificial feel system. 
need not be equipped with a separate gust lock system (Correct) 
must have a back-up control system. 
may be equipped with simple spring type feel units on all flight controls. 
Question (N32859): An artificial feel system: 
functions in series with an irreversible hydraulic actuator. 
is mounted in parallel with a spring tab. 
functions in parallel with an irreversible hydraulic actuator (Correct) 
is necessary in a reversible flight control actuator unit. 
Question (N 29274): The expression "secondary flight control" applies to the: 1) elevator, 2) speed brake, 3) lift-augmentation devices, 4) roll spoilers. 
2, 3 (Correct) 
1, 2, 3, 4 
1, 4 
2, 4 
Question (N35710): On a large transport aeroplane, the auto-slat system: 
assists the ailerons. 
ensures that the (part of) slats are always extended when the ground/flight system is in the "ground" position. 
extends (part of) the slats automatically when a certain value of angle of attack is exceeded (Correct) 
provides for automatic slat retraction after take-off. 
Question (N 97155): The expression "secondary flight control" applies to the: 1) trimmable stabilizer, 2) rudder, 3) speed brake, 4) aileron. 
2, 4 
2, 3 
1, 2, 3, 4 
1, 3 (Correct) 
Question (N 66891): A Krueger flap is normally located at the: 
trailing edge 
trailing edge close to the wing root. 
trailing edge close to the wing tip. 
leading edge (Correct) 
Question (N93200): The reason for a double switch on the elevator trim is: 
because there are two trim motors. 
to reduce the probability of a trim runaway (Correct) 
to be able to use two different trim speeds, slow trim rate at high speed and high trim rate at low speed. 
to prevent both pilots from performing opposite trim inputs. 
Question (N76337): The automatic ground spoiler extension system is normally activated during landing by: 
ground spoiler handle. 
main wheel spin up (Correct) 
idle thrust selection. 
brake pressure application. 
Question (N 1939): Deploying a Fowler flap, the flap will: 
move aft, then turn down (Correct) 
turn down then move aft 
just move aft. 
just turn down. 
Question (N27385): The advantages of fly-by-wire control are: 1) reduction of the electric and hydraulic power required to operate the control surfaces, 2) lesser sensitivity to lightning strike, 3) direct and indirect weight saving through simplification of systems, 4) immunity to different interfering signals, 5) improvement of piloting quality throughout the flight envelope. 
1, 2 
1, 5 
2, 3 
3, 5 (Correct) 
Question (N 59637): Which modes of operation can be found in fly-by-wire aircraft? 
Pitch, Roll, Yaw, Autobrake 
Take-off/Go-around, Flight, Landing, and sometimes Taxi 
Normal, Alternate (Secondary), Direct, Mechanical (Correct) 
Automatic, Mechanical, Emergency, Backup 
Question (N 11250): Modern fly-by-wire systems feature different modes of operation. Which one is the most basic? 
Alternate mode 
Direct computer mode 
Direct mode (Correct) 
Secondary mode 
Question (N 69168): Modern fly-by-wire systems usually feature different modes of operation. Which are the most common ones? 
Normal mode, Alternative (secondary) mode, Direct mode and Mechanical Backup (Correct) 
Normal mode, Alternative (secondary) mode and Direct mode 
Alternative (secondary) mode, Direct mode and Mechanical Backup 
Normal mode, Direct mode and Mechanical Backup 
Question (N 1970): Consider a piston engined aircraft. Which source is pneumatic air taken from? 
static port 
manifold inlet 
ram air (Correct) 
pitot tube 
Question (N 78185): Bleed air extracted from turbine engine can be used for: 
generation of electricity. 
supplying the engine with high pressure airflow. 
cabin pressurization (Correct) 
provision of secondary airflow. 
Question (N 72306): Engine bleed air used for air conditioning and pressurization in turbo-jet aeroplanes is usually taken from the: 
compressor section (Correct) 
by-pass ducting 
turbine section. 
fan section. 
Question (N 67547): In flight, the cabin air for large jet transport aeroplanes is usually supplied by: 
ram air intakes 
piston compressors. 
engine compressors (Correct) 
single radial compressors. 
Question (N 4187): Cabin air for modern transport airplanes is usually taken from: 
the HP compressor 
the second fan stage 
the LP compressor 
HP compressor and from the LP compressor if necessary (Correct) 
Question (N 95011): The purpose of the "pressure relief valve" in a high pressure oxygen system is to: 
relieve overpressure if the pressure reducing valve malfunctions (Correct) 
reduce pressure in the oxygen reservoir to a suitable manifold pressure for the regulator 
maximize the charging pressure of the system. 
act as a manual shut-off valve. 
Question (N 97440): During level flight at a constant cabin pressure altitude (which could be decreased, even at this flight level), the cabin outflow valves are: 
fully closed until the cabin descends to a selected altitude 
partially open (Correct) 
fully closed until the cabin climbs to a selected altitude. 
at the pre-set position for take-off. 
Question (N 44301): The term "bootstrap", when used to identify a cabin air conditioning and pressurization system, refers to the: 
cold air unit (air cycle machine) arrangement (Correct) 
cooling air across the inter-cooler heat exchanger. 
source of the air supply. 
means by which pressurization is controlled. 
Question (N 70009): In a pressurized aircraft whose cabin altitude is 6000 ft, a crack in a cabin window makes it necessary to reduce the differential pressure to 7 psi. The flight level to be maintained in order to keep the same cabin altitude is: 
32,000 ft 
23,000 ft 
28,000 ft (Correct) 
19,000 ft 
Question (N 69765): Cabin heating in a large turbojet transport aeroplane is obtained from: 
hot air extracted from the engine turbines 
a fuel heater system. 
an electrical heater system. 
hot air extracted from the engine compressors (Correct) 
Question (N 23747): On most large transport aeroplanes, the cabin pressure is controlled by regulating the: 
airflow leaving the cabin (Correct) 
airflow entering the cabin. 
RPM of the engine. 
bleed air valve. 
Question (N 65117): Assuming cabin differential pressure has attained the required value in normal flight conditions, if flight altitude is maintained: 
there will be a constant air mass flow through the cabin (Correct) 
the pressurisation system must be controlled manually. 
the pressurization system ceases to function until leakage reduces the pressure. 
the outflow valves will move to the fully open position. 
Question (N 83720): In a typical air conditioning system of a short-haul turbojet aircraft the cabin air is not controlled in respect to the: 
temperature 
humidity (Correct) 
pressure 
purity 
Question (N 10515): "Conditioned" air is air that has: 
been controlled in respect of temperature and pressure (Correct) 
had the oxygen content increased. 
had any moisture removed from it. 
had the oxygen content reduced. 
Question (N 2007): The maximum cabin differential pressure of an aeroplane with a maximum certified altitude of 41,000 ft is approximately: 
3.5 psi 
9 psi (Correct) 
15.5 psi 
13.5 psi 
Question (N 97810): Whilst in level cruising flight, an aeroplane with a pressurized cabin experiences a malfunction of the pressure controller. If the cabin vertical speed indicator reads 200 ft/min rate of descent: 
the crew has to intermittently cut off the incoming air flow in order to maintain a zero cabin altitude. 
a descent must be initiated to prevent the oxygen masks dropping when the cabin altitude reaches 14,000 ft. 
the aircraft has to climb to a higher flight level in order to reduce the cabin altitude to its initial value. 
the differential pressure will rise to its maximum value, thus causing the safety relief valves to open (Correct) 
Question (N 10335): In a turbo compressor air conditioning system (bootstrap system), the purpose of the heat exchangers is to: 
cool the bleed air in front and behind the compressor of the air cycle machine (Correct) 
allow a steady compressor outlet temperature. 
cool bleed air before entering the complete pneumatic system. 
allow a homogeneous temperature by mixing air flows from various air conditioning groups in operation. 
Question (N 35584): Automatic temperature control of the system as shown (referring to figure 021-20), would be accomplished by: 
the cabin sensors only, modulating the mix valve. 
the temperature selector only, modulating the mix valve. 
the temperature selector in conjunction with cabin sensors and the temperature regulator, modulating the mix valve (Correct) 
automatic control of the ram air. 
Question (N 86780): The term "cabin altitude" refers to the: 
flight level at which the aeroplane is flying. 
altitude at maximum differential pressure. 
cabin pressure expressed as altitude (Correct) 
difference in height between the cabin/floor and ceiling. 
Question (N 18320): Assuming cabin pressure decreases, the cabin rate of climb indicator should indicate: 
a rate of descent dependent upon the cabin differential pressure. 
a rate of descent of approximately 300 feet per minute. 
a rate of climb (Correct) 
zero. 
Question (N 12485): In a typical "bootstrap" cooling system the supply air is: 
passed across an expansion turbine, then compressed and passed through a heat exchanger. 
passed across an expansion turbine, then through a secondary heat exchanger and then across a compressor. 
compressed, passed through a secondary heat exchanger, and then across an expansion turbine (Correct) 
passed across an expansion turbine, then directly to the heat exchanger. 
Question (N 32830): A turbo compressor air conditioning system (bootstrap system) includes two heat exchangers—the primary exchanger (P) and the secondary exchanger (S). The functions are: 
P precools the engine bleed air; S cools air behind the pack's compressor (Correct) 
P pre-cools the engine bleed air; S increases the temperature of air for cargo compartment. 
P warms up engine bleed air; S recirculates the cabin air. 
P warms up engine bleed air; S increases the temperature of air from the pack compressor. 
Question (N 34709): Under normal conditions (EASA CS-25) the cabin pressure altitude of a transport aeroplane is not allowed to exceed: 
6,000 ft 
10,000 ft 
8,000 ft (Correct) 
4,000 ft 
Question (N 9267): Temperature regulation of an air conditioning system: 
cannot be automatically controlled. 
is manually controlled by the pilot reading the cabin temperature gauge. 
is automatically controlled by sensing the output temperature from the control valve in relation to the temperature set on the pilot's control panel (Correct) 
is automatically controlled by sensing cabin temperature in relation to engine compressor outlet temperatures. 
Question (N 27404): The pack cooling fan provides: 
cooling air to the primary and secondary heat exchanger during slow flight and ground operation (Correct) 
cooling air to the primary and secondary heat exchanger during cruise. 
cooling air to the pre-cooler. 
air to the eyeball outlets at the Passenger Service Unit (PSU). 
Question (N 57853): Assuming that during cruise flight with air conditioning packs ON, all the outflow valves fully close: 
the air supply would automatically be stopped. 
the cabin pressure would become equal to the ambient outside air pressure. 
the skin of the cabin would be overstressed. 
the pressure differential would go to the maximum value (Correct) 
Question (N 18946): In a cabin air conditioning system with an air cycle machine (bootstrap system), the mass air flow is routed via the: 
secondary heat exchanger outlet to the turbine inlet (Correct) 
secondary heat exchanger outlet to the compressor inlet. 
compressor outlet to the primary heat exchanger inlet. 
turbine outlet to the primary heat exchanger inlet. 
Question (N 65760): During a normal pressurized climb after take-off: 
the cabin differential pressure is maintained constant. 
cabin pressure decreases more slowly than atmospheric pressure (Correct) 
the pressurization system is inoperative until 10,000 ft is reached. 
absolute cabin pressure increases to compensate for the fall in outside pressure. 
Question (N 54811): A cabin pressure controller maintains a pre-set cabin altitude by regulating the: 
position of the outflow valves (Correct) 
mass air flow into the cabin. 
position of the inward relief valves. 
position of the duct relief valves. 
Question (N 30155): A turbo compressor air conditioning system (bootstrap system) will: 
increase charge air pressure whilst causing the temperature to drop in the heat exchanger. 
cause a pressure drop as well as an associated temperature drop in the charge air (Correct) 
not affect the charge air pressure. 
decrease charge air pressure whilst causing the temperature to rise in the heat exchanger. 
Question (N 19667): The purpose of the cabin pressure controller operating in automatic mode is to: 1) control the cabin altitude, 2) control the cabin altitude rate of change, 3) limit the differential pressure, 4) balance the aircraft altitude with cabin altitude, 5) ventilate the cabin, 6) keep a constant differential pressure throughout all the phases of flight. 
1, 2, 3 (Correct) 
2, 6, 4 
5, 6, 1 
4, 5, 3 
Question (N 77609): Cabin air for a large aeroplane during flight: 
has an increased oxygen ratio. 
has a reduced oxygen ratio. 
has a constant oxygen ratio regulated to a preset value. 
is temperature controlled (Correct) 
Question (N 45366): The cabin differential pressure is: 
cabin pressure minus ambient pressure (Correct) 
the pressure differential between the air entering and leaving the cabin. 
approximately 5 psi at maximum. 
approximately 15 psi at maximum. 
Question (N 795): The term "pressure cabin" applies when an aeroplane: 
only pressurises the flight deck area. 
has the ability to maintain a sea level cabin altitude at all altitudes. 
has the ability to maintain a zero cabin differential pressure at all altitudes. 
has the means to maintain cabin pressure higher than ambient pressure (Correct) 
Question (N 24524): If the automatic control of an air conditioning system fails: 
a red failure light will illuminate. 
the pilot can revert to manual control and set the control valve to the required setting (Correct) 
the system must be shut down. 
manual control can be selected but this is limited to "hot air" or "cold air" setting only. 
Question (N 23204): In a "bootstrap" cooling system, the bleed air is compressed in the cold air unit to: 
ensure an adequate air flow across the secondary heat exchanger. 
maintain a constant cabin mass air flow. 
ensure a sufficient temperature drop in the secondary heat exchanger (Correct) 
increase the cabin air supply pressure when the inlet pressure is too low. 
Question (N 26604): If the pressure in the cabin tends to become lower than the outside ambient air pressure the: 
negative pressure relief valves will close. 
outflow valves open completely. 
negative pressure relief valves will open (Correct) 
air cycle machine will stop. 
Question (N 94073): Cabin differential pressure means the pressure difference between: 
cabin pressure and ambient air pressure (Correct) 
flight deck and passenger cabin. 
cabin pressure and ambient air pressure at MSL. 
actual cabin pressure and selected pressure. 
Question (N 2262): In an air cycle machine (bootstrap system), bleed air downstream of the first heat exchanger is: 
passed across an expansion turbine, then compressed and passed through a secondary heat exchanger. 
compressed, passed through a secondary heat exchanger, and then passed across an expansion turbine (Correct) 
passed across an expansion turbine, then directly passed to the second heat exchanger. 
compressed, then passed across an expansion turbine and finally passed across the second heat exchanger. 
Question (N 72786): Under normal flight conditions, cabin pressure is controlled by: 
pressurisation duct relief valves. 
inward relief valves. 
regulating the discharge of air through the outflow valves (Correct) 
engine RPM. 
Question (N 43291): In a turbo compressor air conditioning system (bootstrap system), the main water separation unit is located: 
before the heat exchangers. 
before the cooling turbine. 
just after the heat exchangers. 
after the cooling turbine (Correct) 
Question (N 5556): Main cabin temperature is: 
controlled by individual passenger. 
not controllable at the maximum cabin differential pressure. 
only controllable at maximum cabin differential pressure. 
controlled automatically, or by flight crew selection (Correct) 
Question (N 38136): In an air cycle machine (bootstrap system) the: 
turbine drives the compressor, which increases the temperature of the air, thus making the second heat exchanger more efficient. 
turbine increases the pressure of the air supply to the cabin. 
temperature drop across the turbine is the main contributor to the cooling effect of the air cycle machine (Correct) 
turbine drives the compressor, which provides pressurisation. 
Question (N 16070): At FL310, the cabin outflow valve moves to a completely open position, causing depressurisation. The crew don their oxygen masks and start an emergency descent. The following indications can be seen on the cabin VSI: 
The cabin altitude increases until the pressure differential is zero, then the cabin VSI shows a descent equal to the aircraft VSI (Correct) 
The cabin altitude decreases more slowly until the pressure differential is zero. 
The cabin VSI shows a climb until it indicates the altitude of the valve failure. 
The cabin VSI shows a climb until cabin pressure equals ambient pressure. 
Question (N 26408): In a typical air conditioning system of modern large transport aeroplanes the reduction of air temperature and pressure is achieved by: 
an evaporator 
a condenser. 
an expansion turbine (Correct) 
a compressor. 
Question (N 95533): Assuming cabin differential pressure has reached the required value in normal flight conditions, if flight altitude and air conditioning system setting are maintained: 
the outflow valves will move to the fully open position. 
the pressurization system ceases to function until leakage reduces the pressure. 
the mass air flow through the cabin is constant (Correct) 
the outflow valves will move to the fully closed position. 
Question (N 81339): The purpose of an air conditioning pack inlet flow valve (pack valve) is to: 
discharge cabin air to atmosphere if cabin pressure rises above the selected altitude. 
regulate cabin pressure at the maximum cabin pressure differential. 
regulate cabin pressure to the selected altitude. 
maintain a constant and sufficient air mass flow to ventilate the cabin (Correct) 
Question (M 30575): A warning device alerts the crew in case of an excessive cabin altitude. This warning must be triggered on reaching the following altitude: 
14,000 ft 
10,000 ft (Correct) 
8,000 ft 
12,000 ft 
Question (N 6250): If the maximum certified altitude of an aeroplane is limited by the pressurised cabin, this limitation is due to the maximum: 
positive cabin differential pressure at maximum cabin altitude (Correct) 
cabin rate of climb. 
negative cabin differential pressure at maximum cabin altitude. 
cabin rate of descent. 
Question (N 23647): When the air is compressed for pressurization purposes, the percentage oxygen content is: 
dependent on the degree of pressurization. 
decreased. 
increased. 
unaffected (Correct) 
Question (N 60436): The primary function of an air cycle machine is to: 
pump the conditioned air into the cabin. 
decrease the pressure of the bleed air. 
remove water from the bleed air. 
cool the bleed air (Correct) 
Question (N 58488): If the maximum operating altitude of an airplane is limited by the pressurized cabin, this limitation is due to the maximum: 
negative cabin differential pressure at maximum operating ceiling. 
positive cabin differential pressure at maximum cabin altitude (Correct) 
negative differential pressure at maximum cabin altitude. 
positive cabin differential pressure at maximum operating ceiling. 
Question (N 13642): Cabin pressure is controlled by: 
the cabin air mass flow control inlet valve(s). 
delivering a substantially constant flow of air into the cabin and controlling the outflow (Correct) 
the cabin air re-circulation system. 
controlling the flow of air into the cabin with constant outflow. 
Question (N 83954): The purpose of the pack cooling fans in the air conditioning system is to: 
cool the APU compartment. 
supply the heat exchangers with cooling air during cruise flight. 
supply the Passenger Service Unit (PSU) with fresh air. 
supply the heat exchangers with cooling air during slow flights and ground operation (Correct) 
Question (N 46903): A cabin rate of descent: 
results in a cabin pressure decrease. 
results in a cabin pressure increase (Correct) 
is always the same as the aeroplane's rate of descent. 
is not possible at constant aeroplane altitudes. 
Question (N 9116): An air cycle machine (air conditioning pack): 
increases outlet pressure whilst causing the temperature to drop in the heat exchanger. 
does not affect the bleed air. 
decreases bleed air pressure whilst causing the temperature to rise in the heat exchanger. 
causes a pressure and temperature drop in the bleed air (Correct) 
Question (N 30376): An aeroplane with a pressurised cabin flies at FL310 and the outflow valve runs to the open position. This results in: 
CAB V/S increase, CAB ALT increase, DELTA P decrease (Correct) 
CAB V/S decrease, CAB ALT decrease, DELTA P increase. 
CAB V/S increase, CAB ALT increase, DELTA P increase. 
CAB V/S decrease, CAB ALT increase, DELTA P decrease. 
Question (N 25392): In a large transport aeroplane the main temperature reduction of the conditioned air is achieved in: 
the expansion turbine. 
the heat exchangers (Correct) 
the condenser. 
the evaporator. 
Question (N 98418): If the cabin altitude rises (aircraft in level flight), the differential pressure: 
remains constant. 
may exceed the maximum permitted differential. 
increases. 
decreases (Correct) 
Question (N 65969): Which of the following components of a turboprop aircraft are protected by an anti-icing system? 
Wings, pitot tubes and static ports. 
Engine inlets, pitot tubes and static ports (Correct) 
APU inlet, pitot tubes, static ports and wings. 
Wings, pitot tubes, static ports and waste water exhaust. 
Question (N 16091): Windscreen heating systems usually: 
are powered from the emergency DC bus. 
depend upon the pilot monitoring the temperature probe. 
cycle ON/OFF to maintain a windscreen temperature between approximately 18° and 35°C (Correct) 
consist of warm air from the cabin conditioning system blown across the surface. 
Question (N 45037): The ice protection for propellers of most turboprop aeroplanes works: 
electrically (Correct) 
with hot air. 
with anti-icing fluid. 
pneumatically. 
Question (N 12308): The de-icing of a propeller by fluid is achieved through: 
ground application of fluid only. 
spray mats. 
de-icing paste. 
slinger rings (Correct) 
Question (N 94346): With regard to pneumatic mechanical devices that afford ice protection the only correct statement is: 
they are used extensively on modern aircraft as they are inexpensive. 
they can only be used as anti-icing devices. 
they can be used as both de-icing and anti-icing devices. 
they can only be used as de-icing devices (Correct) 
Question (N 82664): The heating facility for the windshield of an aircraft is: 
used on a continual basis as it reduces the thermal gradients (Correct) 
only used when hot air demisting is insufficient. 
used only at low altitudes where there is a risk of ice formation. 
harmful to the integrity of the windows in the event of a bird strike. 

Based on the provided document, here is the complete extraction of all questions, their options, and the identified correct answers.

Aircraft General Knowledge (AGK) Questions
Ice Protection Systems
Question N 32489
Generally, for large aeroplanes, electrical heating for ice protection is used on:
fin leading edges.
elevator leading edges.
pitot tubes. (Correct)
slat leading edges.
Question N 6969
The wing ice protection system currently used for most large turboprop transport aeroplanes is:
a pneumatic system with inflatable boots (Correct) 
a liquid de-icing system.
an electrical de-icing system.
a hot air system.
Question N 81631
On most transport aircraft, flight deck windows are protected against icing by:
anti-icing fluid.
vinyl coating.
electric heating. (Correct)
rain repellent system.
Question N 68114
In jet aeroplanes the thermal anti-icing system is primarily supplied by:
the APU.
bleed air from the engines. (Correct)
turbo compressors.
ram air, heated via a heat exchanger.
Question N 93112
The heat for the anti-icing system of a turbofan engine intake is provided by:
bleed air from the HP compressor. (Correct)
a dedicated generator on the gearbox of that engine.
the electrical system of the aircraft.
bleed air from the LP compressor.
Question N 86420
Concerning electrically powered ice protection devices, the only true statement is:
on modern aeroplanes, electrically powered thermal devices are typically used as de-icing devices for pitot-tubes, static ports, windshield etc.
on modern aeroplanes, electrically powered thermal devices are typically used to prevent icing on small surfaces (pitot-static, windshield, etc.). (Correct)
on modern aeroplanes, electrically powered thermal devices are very efficient, therefore they only need little energy.
on modern aeroplanes, electrical power supply being available in excess, this system is often used for large surfaces de-icing.
Question N 68520
The anti-icing method for the wings of large jet transport aeroplanes most commonly used in flight is:
electrical (electrical resistance).
chemical (glycol-based liquid).
mechanical (pneumatic boots).
thermal (use of hot air). (Correct)
Question N 57989
Pneumatic mechanical devices that provide ice protection:
are usually used on aeroplanes equipped with turbo-fan engines.
can only be used as anti-icing devices.
require large quantities of bleed air.
are usually used as de-icing devices. (Correct)
Question N 43423
The wing anti-ice system has to protect:
the whole leading edge except the slats because they cannot be de-iced when extended.
the leading edge or the slats, either partially or completely. (Correct)
the whole upper wing surface and the flaps.
the whole leading edge and the whole under wing surface.
Question N 77663
During flight, the wing anti-ice system has to protect:
the whole leading edge and the whole upper wing surface.
slats and the leading edge flaps only.
a part of the whole leading edge. (Correct)
the whole upper wing surface and the flaps.
Question N 19767
The elements typically protected against icing on large transport aircraft are:
engine air intake and pod
front glass shield
radome
pitot tubes and waste water exhaust masts
leading edges of the wings
cabin windows
trailing edges of the wings
electronic equipment compartment
1, 2, 4, 5 (Correct) 
1, 4, 5, 7
1, 2, 5, 6
1, 2, 3, 8
Question N 79864
Pneumatic mechanical ice protection systems are mainly used for:
pitot tubes.
propellers.
windscreens.
wings. (Correct)
Question N 8461
The wing ice protection system currently used on most large jet transport aeroplanes is:
a liquid de-icing system.
a hot air system. (Correct)
a pneumatic system with expandable boots.
an electrical de-icing system.
Question N 52234
Power for windscreen heating is usually:
3 phase AC. (Correct)
single phase AC.
115 volts DC.
28 volts DC.
Question N 47389
The sequential pneumatic impulses used in certain leading edge de-icing devices:
prevent ice formation
can be triggered from the flight deck after icing has become visible
will inflate each pneumatic boot for a few seconds
will repeat more than ten times per second
2, 4
2, 3 (Correct) 
1, 4
1, 3
Question N 9195
The use of a hot air wing anti-icing system:
reduces aerodynamic performance of the wing and causes no reduction in maximum thrust.
does not affect aerodynamic performance of the wing and causes a reduction in maximum thrust. (Correct)
does not affect aerodynamic performance of the wing and causes no reduction in maximum thrust.
reduces aerodynamic performance of the wing and causes a reduction in maximum thrust.
Question N 9619
The differential pressure ice detector is activated by:
a decrease in static pressure.
an increase in dynamic pressure.
a decrease in dynamic pressure. (Correct)
an increase in static pressure.
Question N 22687
Which of the statements describes a Hot Rod Ice Detector System?
The system consists of a vibrating detector which can be heated.
The system consists of a temperature probe and moisture detector controller which in turn incorporates two heated sensors.
The system consists of a heated probe and a built-in floodlight. (Correct)
The system consists of a small heated pipe with several holes.
Question N 46554
On which principle does the Rosemount Ice Detector operate on?
Pressure difference.
Translucence.
Voltage difference.
Vibration. (Correct)
Question N 30669
A hot rod ice detector:
activates the aircraft de-icing system.
accumulates ice and is visible from the cockpit. (Correct)
activates an ice warning light in the cockpit.
accumulates ice and is visible on an instrument in the cockpit.

Fuel Systems
Question N 39303
The fuel temperature, at which, under standard conditions, the vapour ignites in contact with a flame and extinguishes immediately, is the:
flash point. (Correct)
fire point.
combustion point.
self ignition point.
Question N 53295
Unusable fuel is:
always the same quantity irrespective of aircraft attitude of flight conditions.
fuel drained from the aircraft due to water contamination.
the amount of fuel not available for use but included on the fuel contents gauge. (Correct)
sometimes minimised by the incorporation of tank sump pads.
Question N 19485
AVGAS 100LL is associated with what colour?
black and white
red
blue (Correct) 
yellow and black
Question N 78119
AVGAS 100 is associated with what colour?
red
green (Correct) 
black and white
blue
Question N 65068
A volumetric top off valve on small aircraft typically works on the principle of:
capacitive sensing systems.
pressure sensors.
float switches. (Correct)
flow rate sensors.
Question N 60469
Which type of fuel tank is used in wet wing aircraft wing tanks?
Integral fuel tank (Correct) 
Bladder tanks
Drum-type tanks
Tip tanks
Question N 74051
Fuel stored in aircraft tanks will accumulate moisture. The most practical way to minimize this when a plane is used every day or so is to:
keep tanks topped off (full) when plane is not in use. (Correct)
drain tanks at end of each day's flight.
keep tank vents plugged and filler cap tight.
use only high octane gasoline.
Question N 79237
On small aircraft the fuel content is typically measured by:
the volume of fuel in the tank.
the level of fuel in the tank. (Correct)
the weight of fuel in the tank.
calculation of the centre of gravity of the aircraft.
Question N 58938
AVGAS 80 is associated with what colour?
red (Correct) 
blue
black
green
Question N 68894
Refer to figure 021-23. The diagram shown in annex represents a jet fuel system. The fuel flow measurement is carried out:
after low pressure valve (item 1).
after high pressure pump first stage (item 2).
after high pressure valve (item 4). (Correct)
in the fuel control unit (item 3).
Question N 5912
Fuel tank air pressure is maintained at ambient by:
the fuel dump system.
the fuel top off unit.
the fuel vent system. (Correct)
the fuel tank drains.
Question N 57132
The operating pressure of a booster pump in the fuel supply system of a gas turbine aircraft is typically within the following range:
20 to 50 psi (Correct) 
300 to 500 psi
5 to 10 psi
3,000 to 5,000 psi
Question N 95976
During fuelling the automatic fuelling shut off valves will switch off the fuel supply system when:
there is fire.
fuelling system has reached a certain pressure.
the surge vent tank is filled.
the fuel has reached a predetermined volume or mass. (Correct)
Question N 23223
Refer to figure 021-22. Which of the fuel pumps shown in the annex can generally provide fuel to the APU?
The DC and left AC pumps only.
The AC pumps only.
The DC pump only.
The DC and AC pumps. (Correct)
Question N 48965
In a compensated capacitance type quantity indicating system, the contents gauge of a half-full fuel tank indicates a fuel mass of 8000 kg. If a temperature rise increased the volume of fuel by 5%, the indicated fuel weight would:
increase by 5%.
remain the same. (Correct)
decrease by 5%.
increase by 10%.
Question N 75126
Fuel pressure is measured:
always at the outlet of the high pressure pump only.
in the line between the booster pump and the engine or at the outlet of the high pressure filter. (Correct)
in the line between the high pressure filter and the high pressure pump.
at the outlet from the fuel control unit.
Question N 75214
The fuel cross-feed system is used to:
eliminate unusable fuel from the tanks.
automatically fill every tank up to the pre-selected level.
feed any engine from any fuel tank. (Correct)
quickly jettison the fuel in case of emergency.
Question N 89580
On most transport aircraft, the low pressure pumps of the fuel system are:
centrifugal pumps. (Correct)
gear type pumps.
piston pumps.
diaphragm pumps.
Question N 69889
Refer to figure 021-22. The APU ISOLATION VALVE is closed. How will the APU normally be supplied with fuel in case of a failure of the DC FUEL PUMP?
By the LEFT AFT AC PUMP located in the left wing.
In this situation the APU cannot be supplied with fuel.
By the LEFT AC PUMP located in the centre tank. (Correct)
By the right AC FWD AC PUMP via the crossfeed valve.
Question N 60337
On a jet aircraft, fuel heaters are:
installed in each tank.
installed only in the centre tank.
not necessary at all.
located on the engines. (Correct)
Question N 47356
The function of a feed box in the fuel tank is to:
increase the fuel level at the boost pump location. (Correct)
ventilate the tank during refuelling under high pressure.
distribute the fuel to the various tanks during refuelling.
trap fuel sediments or sludge in the lower part of the tank.
Question N 13644
Fuel pumps submerged in the fuel tanks of large multi-engine aircraft are typically:
centrifugal high pressure type pumps.
low pressure variable swash plate pumps.
high pressure variable swash plate pumps.
centrifugal low pressure type pumps. (Correct)
Question N 89375
The purpose of baffles fitted in wing fuel tanks is to:
restrict undesirable fuel movement during sideslip. (Correct)
close the vent lines in case of turbulence.
prevent positive pressure build up inside the tank.
limit high fuel flow during refuelling operations.
Question N 10031
The fuel cross-feed system:
is only used in flight for fuel transfer from one tank to another.
is only used to feed an engine from the tank of the opposite wing.
is only used on the ground for fuel transfer from one tank to another.
allows feeding of any engine from any fuel tank. (Correct)
Question N 31800
Which statement is correct?
The freezing point for Jet A is at a lower temperature than that for Jet B.
The flash point for Jet A is at a higher temperature than that for Jet B.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)
Question N 23272
On most transport aircraft, the low pressure pumps of the fuel system are:
mechanically driven by the engine's accessory gearbox.
removable only after the associated tank has been emptied.
electrically driven centrifugal pumps. (Correct)
electro-mechanical swash plate pumps, with self-regulated pressure.
Question N 12044
The purpose of baffle check valves fitted in aircraft fuel tanks is to:
close the vent lines in case of turbulence.
damp out movement of the fuel in the tank.
prevent positive pressure buildup inside the tank.
prevent fuel movement to the wing tip. (Correct)
Question N 75310
The ventilation system in a fuel tank:
prevents fuel freezing during flight in icing conditions.
prevents vapour locking in the fuel lines.
can be used to drain the tanks, for daily checks.
prevents low pressure or excessive overpressure in the tank. (Correct)
Question N 46359
The capacitance type fuel gauging system indicates the fuel quantity by measuring the:
density variation of the fuel.
dielectric change between fuel and air. (Correct)
electrical resistance change.
resistivity variation of the fuel.
Question N 6389
The engine fuel control unit (FCU) is protected from damage by debris by:
magnetic plugs located at various positions throughout the fuel supply.
the fine filter located between the high pressure fuel pump and the governor unit. (Correct)
a fine filter located prior to the high pressure fuel pump at the inlet to the fuel control unit.
strainers at the inlet to the low pressure fuel pumps.
Question N 82011
The purpose of baffles in an aeroplane's wing fuel tank is to:
prevent overpressure in the tank.
prevent the fuel from flowing in the vent lines.
prevent mixture of the fuel and hydraulic fluid.
restrict fuel movement in the tank. (Correct)
Question N 830
Which statement is correct?
The freezing point for Jet A is at a higher temperature than that for Jet B.
The flash point for Jet A is at a higher temperature than that for Jet B.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
Question N 32007
On most transport jet aircraft, the low pressure pumps of the fuel system are supplied with electric power of the following type:
115 V DC
28 V DC
115 V AC (Correct) 
28 V AC
Question N 75297
Refer to figure 021-22. If the DC pump on the left tank is inoperative, how can you feed the left engine with fuel?
By any AC pump. (Correct)
By the left AC pumps only.
By the right AC pumps only.
By the centre AC pumps only.
Question N 9156
One of the reasons for the fuel system booster pumps to be submerged in fuel is to:
to improve the accuracy of the fuel quantity measurement.
cool the pumps. (Correct)
shorten the fuel lines, so minimising the pressure losses.
improve their efficiency.
Question N 1705
Additives are used for turbine engine fuels in order to:
decrease the flashpoint of the fuel for operation in high temperatures.
increase the freezing point when operating in low temperatures.
increase the flashpoint of the fuel for operation in high temperatures.
prevent waxing of the fuel in low temperatures. (Correct)
Question N 2642
The automatic fuelling shut off valve:
cuts off the fuel in case of engine fire.
stops fuelling as soon as a certain pressure is reached.
stops fuelling as soon as a certain fuel level is reached inside the tank. (Correct)
stops fuelling as soon as the fuel spills into the ventline.
Question N 78428
What is the freezing point of Jet A-1?
$-60°C$
$-47°C$ (Correct) 
$-45°C$
$-40°C$
Question N 81901
Refer to figure 021-22. Which of the following statements are correct or incorrect?
The DC fuel pump can feed any engine if the other pumps are not working.
The DC fuel pump can only feed the APU.

incorrect; 2) incorrect
1) incorrect; 2) correct (Correct) 

correct; 2) correct

correct; 2) incorrect
Question N 78786
The functions of a LP booster pump in a gas turbine fuel system are to:
avoid vapour locking and prevent cavitation of the HP fuel pump. (Correct)
pressurise the fuel dump system and increase the pressure during refuelling.
increase the pressure during refuelling and prevent cavitation of the HP fuel pump.
avoid vapour locking and increase the pressure during refuelling.
Question N 1641
Refer to figure 021-22. In flight, with the centre tank empty and APU operating, a fuel imbalance is detected (quantity in left main tank is less than in right main tank). Rebalancing of the two tanks is:
possible with crossfeed valves "OPEN" and left main tank pumps "OFF" and right main tank pumps "ON". (Correct)
impossible without causing the APU stop.
impossible because there is no fuel in centre tank.
possible with crossfeed valves "OPEN" and right main tank pumps "OFF".
Question N 61080
The fuel supply system on a jet engine includes a fuel heating device, upstream of the main fuel filter so as to:
ease low pressure pumps work by increasing fuel fluidity.
prevent fuel from freezing in fuel pipes due to low temperatures at high altitude.
prevent, at low fuel temperature, the risk of ice formation from water contained in the fuel. (Correct)
maintain and improve fuel heating power.
Question N 9001
The cross-feed fuel system can be used to:
feed any engine from any fuel tank
dump the unusable fuel
adjust fuel distribution
to transfer fuel from one tank to another located in the same wing
2, 4
1, 4
1, 3 (Correct) 
2, 3
Question N 50371
One of the reasons for the fuel system booster pumps to be submerged in fuel is to:
improve their efficiency.
heat the fuel before it enters the pump.
facilitate the priming of the pumps. (Correct)
shorten the fuel lines, so minimising the pressure losses.
Question N 58706
On some large aeroplanes the fuel tanks may be vented through:
the return lines of the fuel pumps.
bleed air from the engines.
a pressure regulator in the wing tip.
air intakes on the underside of the wing. (Correct)
Question N 67707
Fire precautions to be observed before refuelling are:
all bonding and connections to the earth terminal between ground equipment and the aircraft should be made before filler caps are removed. (Correct)
aircraft must be more than 10 metres from radar or HF radio equipment under test.
passengers may be boarded (traversing the refuelling zone) providing suitable fire extinguishers are readily available.
Ground Power Units (GPU) are not to be operated.
Question N 32611
The correct order of decreasing freezing points of the three mentioned fuels is:
Jet A, Jet A-1, Jet B. (Correct) 
Jet B, Jet A, Jet A-1
Jet B, Jet A-1, Jet A.
Jet A-1, Jet A, Jet B.
Question N 47716
Fuel system indications available to the pilot are normally restricted to:
fuel flow, tank transfer status, fuel contents, fuel temperature, fuel cooler status.
fuel contents, fuel low level, fuel pressure, fuel flow, fuel transfer status, fuel filter condition. (Correct)
fuel low level, fuel flow, fuel temperature, fuel filter monitor, tank transfer status.
fuel contents and low level only.
Question N 26296
Which statement is correct?
The freezing point for Jet A is at a lower temperature than that for Jet B.
The flash point for Jet A is at about the same temperature as that for Jet B.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
Question N 21527
Refer to figure 021-22. Which of the following statements are correct or incorrect?
The AC pumps failed but the DC pump is serviceable. The engines can be supplied with fuel from both wing tanks by the DC pump?
Both engines can be supplied by the DC pump in a situation which is currently depicted by the diagram.
1) incorrect; 2) incorrect (Correct) 

correct; 2) incorrect

incorrect; 2) correct

correct; 2) correct
Question N 25577
Fuel system ice traps:
are replaced by water traps at the bottom of the fuel tanks on helicopters.
may be fitted in the fuel delivery line between the fuel tank and the engine. (Correct)
are devices fitted to the engine and heated using engine oil or hot air tapped from the compressor.
are not required on helicopters due to the inability of the aircraft to fly at high altitude.
Question N 4765
Refer to figure 021-22. Which statement about the DC FUEL PUMP is correct?
This pump is used to feed the APU. (Correct)
This pump is used to feed the left engine.
This pump is used for crossfeed purposes only.
This pump is used to feed both engines.
Question N 24123
A typical value of the fuel density of Jet A-1 fuel at 15°C is:
0.8 kg/l (Correct) 
0.9 kg/l
0.72 kg/l
0.6 kg/l

Electrical Systems
Question N 1995
A current limiter fuse (thermal) in a DC generation system is used to:
instantaneously rupture to limit the current in the load.
limit the current in the field circuit.
limit the current in the armature.
allow a short term overload before rupturing. (Correct)
Question N 866
A magnetic circuit breaker:
permits an overcurrent limited in time.
is a system with a slow response time.
can be reset without any danger even when fault remains.
is a protection system that has a quick tripping response. (Correct)
Question N 63773
Because of the input/output relationship of an AND gate, it is often referred to as the:
"any or all" gate.
"all or nothing" gate. (Correct)
"state indicator" gate.
"inhibited" or "negated" gate.
Question N 8366
A "Zener" diode is used for:
digital displays.
voltage stabilisation. (Correct)
reverse current protection.
rectification.
Question N 80767
The purpose of bonding the metallic parts of an aircraft is to:
prevent electrolytic corrosion between mating surfaces of similar metals
ensure zero voltage difference between aircraft components
isolate all components electrically
provide a single earth for electrical devices
2, 3
2, 4 (Correct) 
1, 4
1, 3
Question N 41976
The most widely used AC frequency in aircraft is:
400 Hz (Correct) 
115 Hz
200 Hz
50 Hz
Question N 22771
A relay is:
switch specially designed for AC circuits.
an electromagnetically operated switch. (Correct)
an electrical security switch.
an electrical energy conversion unit.
Question N 40115
How is AC frequency described?
Period
Volt
Ampere
Hertz (Correct) 
Question N 50670
The purpose of static wick dischargers is to:
dissipate static charge from the aircraft skin after landing.
dissipate static charge of the aircraft in flight thus avoiding radio interference as a result of static electricity. (Correct)
provide a path to ground for static charges when refuelling.
be able to fly higher because of less electrical friction.
Question N 58552
If a current is passed through a conductor which is positioned perpendicular to a magnetic field:
the current will increase.
the intensity of the magnetic field will decrease.
a force will be exerted on the conductor. (Correct)
there will be no effect unless the conductor is moved.
Question N 15449
Assuming the initiating cause is removed, which of these statements about resetting are correct or incorrect?
A fuse is not resettable
A circuit breaker is resettable

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
Question N 66577
Refer to figure 021-11. The repeating bell is activated when:
the C1 and C3 sensors detect smoke.
the C2 and C4 sensors detect smoke.
the C1 and C2 sensors detect smoke. (Correct)
only one sensor detects smoke.
Question N 54776
Electrical bonding of an aircraft is used to:
protect the aircraft against lightning effects
reset the electrostatic potential of the aircraft to a value approximating 0 volt
reduce radio interference on radio communication systems
set the aircraft to a single potential
2, 4
3, 4
1, 3, 4 (Correct) 
1, 2, 3
Question N 1117
A thermal circuit breaker:
protects the system in the event of any overcurrent.
protects the system in the event of any overheating.
protects the system in the event of a prolonged overcurrent. (Correct)
protects the system in the event of a prolonged overheating.
Question N 72768
The difference between a fuse and a circuit breaker is:
A fuse is not resettable and a circuit breaker is not resettable.
A fuse is suitable for high currents and a circuit breaker is not suitable for high currents.
A fuse is not suitable for high currents and a circuit breaker is suitable for high currents.
A fuse is not resettable and a circuit breaker is resettable. (Correct)
Question N 63074
Static dischargers are:
used to set all the parts of the airframe to the same electrical potential
placed on wing and tail tips to facilitate electrical discharge
used to reset the electrostatic potential of the aircraft to a value approximating 0 volts
located on wing and tail tips to reduce interference with the on-board radio communication systems to a minimum
limit the risks of transfer of electrical charges between the aircraft and the electrified clouds
1, 3, 4
2, 4, 5 (Correct) 
3, 4, 5
1, 2, 5
Question N 12110
The rating of electrical fuses is expressed in:
amperes. (Correct)
volts.
ohms.
watts.
Question N 96826
The true statement among the following in relation to the application of Ohm's law is:
current in a circuit is inversely proportional to the applied electromotive force.
the current in a circuit is directly proportional to the resistance of the circuit.
current in a circuit is directly proportional to the applied electromotive force. (Correct)
power in the circuit is inversely proportional to the square of the current.
Based on the provided document, here are the extracted questions, their corresponding options, and the identified correct answers.

Question 1 (N 12685)
Refer to figure 021-07. The logic symbol 3 represents (assuming positive logic): 
an INVERT or NOT gate. (Correct)
a NOR gate. 
an EXCLUSIVE gate. 
a NAND gate. 

Question 2 (N 45205)
One indication of inadequate electrical bonding of aircraft components may be: 
static noise on the radio. (Correct)
a circuit breaker popping out. 
heavy corrosion on the fuselage skin mountings. 
interference on the VOR receiver. 

Question 3 (N 64937)
Because of the input/output relationship of an OR gate, it is often referred to as the: 
"state indicator" gate. 
"any or all" gate. (Correct)
"inhibited" or "negated" gate. 
"all or nothing" gate. 

Question 4 (N 9842)
Regarding Ohm's law: 
the power in the circuit is inversely proportional to the square of the current. 
the current in a circuit is inversely proportional to voltage. 
the current in a circuit is directly proportional to the resistance of the circuit. 
the current in a circuit is directly proportional to voltage. (Correct)

Question 5 (N 11658)
The function of a NOT logic gate within a circuit is to: 
ensure the input signal is DC only. 
ensure the output signal is of the same state as the input signal. 
ensure the input signal is AC only. 
invert the input signal such that the output is always of the opposite state. (Correct)

Question 6 (N 72238)
Circuit Breakers are used for: 
AC and DC electrical systems. (Correct)
AC electrical systems. 
DC electrical systems. 
oil systems. 

Question 7 (N 94364)
The resistors R1 and R2 are connected in parallel. The value of the equivalent resistance (Req) so obtained is given by the following formula: 
$Req=R1+R2$ 
$Req=R1\times R2$ 
$1/Req=1/R1+1/R2$ (Correct) 
$1/Req=1/(R1+R2)$ 

Question 8 (N 68069)
When a conductor cuts the field lines of a magnetic field: 
a Lorentz force is induced in the conductor. (Correct)
there will be no effect on the conductor. 
the current will stop. 
the field will collapse. 

Question 9 (N 4603)
When the AC voltage across a capacitor is kept constant and the frequency is increased, the current through the capacitor will: 
be zero. 
decrease. 
increase. (Correct)
remain the same. 

Question 10 (N 20929)
A relay is: 
another name for a solenoid valve. 
a device which is used to increase electrical power. 
a magnetically operated switch. (Correct)
a unit which is used to convert electrical energy into heat energy. 

Question 11 (N 50142)
Assuming the initiating cause is removed, which of these statements about resetting are correct or incorrect? 
A fuse is resettable
A circuit breaker is resettable.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. (Correct)

Question 12 (N 46374)
What is the unit of measurement for electrical work? 
Watt 
Volt 
Joule (Correct) 
Ohm 

Question 13 (N 73479)
The type of gate that requires all "TRUE" inputs for a "TRUE" output is: 
NOR 
AND (Correct) 
NAND 
OR 

Question 14 (N 3057)
A component consuming 80 watts at 8 amps would require a supply of: 
0.008 kV 
100 Volts 
5 Volts 
0.01 kV (Correct) 

Question 15 (N 63513)
When a conductor cuts the flux of a magnetic field: 
current will flow in accordance with Fleming's left hand rule. 
an electromotive force (emf) is induced in the conductor. (Correct)
there will be no effect on the conductor. 
the field will collapse. 

Question 16 (N 81282)
A test to assess the state of charge of a Lead-acid battery would involve: 
comparing the "on-load" and "off-load" battery voltages. (Correct)
checking the battery voltage "off-load". 
checking the level of the electrolyte. 
checking the discharge current of the battery "on-load". 

Question 17 (N 26671)
The capacity of a battery is given in: 
volts. 
internal resistance. 
ampere hours. (Correct)
watts. 

Question 18 (N 94869)
The advantages of Nickel-Cadmium compared with Lead-acid batteries are: 
lower risk of thermal runaway.
higher internal resistance, hence higher power.
reduced charging time.
constant output voltage.
1, 2 
1, 3 
3, 4 (Correct) 
2, 4 

Question 19 (N 23417)
The capacity of a battery is the: 
number of cycles (charging and discharging) that a battery can withstand without deterioration of its cells. 
intensity withstood by the battery during charging. 
amount of ampere-hours that a fully charged battery can supply. (Correct)
no-load voltage of the battery multiplied by its rated output current. 

Question 20 (N 76331)
When a battery is almost fully discharged there is a tendency for the: 
voltage to decrease under load. (Correct)
voltage to increase due to the current available. 
electrolyte to "boil". 
current produced to increase due to the reduced voltage. 

Question 21 (N 62970)
If one of the 12 cells of a Lead-acid battery has a broken connection rendering it inoperable, the battery: 
has 1/12 less voltage and less capacity, but can still be used. 
has 1/32 less capacity, but can still be used. 
has 1/12 less voltage, but can still be used. 
is unserviceable. (Correct)

Question 22 (N 2975)
The connection in series of two 12 volt / 40 Ah batteries, will create a unit with the following characteristics: 
24 volt / 40 Ah (Correct) 
12 volt / 40 Ah 
12 volt / 80 Ah 
24 volt / 80 Ah 

Question 23 (N 64881)
The voltage of a fully charged lead-acid battery cell is approximately: 
1.4V 
2.2V (Correct) 
1.2V 
1.8V 

Question 24 (N 67984)
The connection in parallel of two 12 volt / 40 Ah batteries, will create a unit with the following characteristics: 
24 volt / 80 Ah 
12 volt / 80 Ah (Correct) 
24 volt / 40 Ah 
12 volt / 40 Ah 

Question 25 (N 15675)
The frequency of an AC generator is dependent on the: 
number of individual poles and the field strength. 
field strength and the speed of the moving part. 
number of individual poles only. 
number of pairs of poles and the speed of the moving part. (Correct)

Question 26 (N 13817)
Assuming a Constant Speed Drive (CSD) fault is indicated, the CSD should be disconnected: 
provided the engine is running. (Correct)
at flight idle engine RPM only. 
on the ground only. 
when the AC generator voltage is outside limits. 

Question 27 (N 33619)
The input and output of a static inverter are respectively: 
AC and AC. 
AC and DC. 
DC and DC. 
DC and AC. (Correct)

Question 28 (N 87902)
The purpose of a voltage regulator is to control the output voltage of the: 
TRU. 
generators at varying speeds and the batteries at varying loads. 
generator at varying loads and speeds. (Correct)
batteries at varying loads. 

Question 29 (N 12235)
The reasons for disconnecting a constant speed drive (CSD) of an AC generator in flight are: 
low oil pressure in the CSD.
slight variation about the normal operating frequency.
high oil temperature in the CSD.
excessive variation of output voltage.
1, 4 
2, 4 
1, 3 (Correct) 
2, 3 

Question 30 (N 55872)
The moving part in an AC generator is usually referred to as the: 
slip ring 
stator 
rotor (Correct) 
oscillator 

Question 31 (N 33851)
How is the current to the rotor in a modern alternator controlled? 
By the battery. 
By a separate AC alternator. 
By a separate AC source using permanent magnets. 
By a voltage regulator. (Correct)

Question 32 (N 56946)
The frequency of the current provided by an alternator depends on: 
its load. 
its rotation speed. (Correct)
the strength of the excitation current. 
its phase balance. 

Question 33 (N 84724)
An AC generator driven by a constant speed drive (CSD) unit: 
requires a voltage controller to maintain constant voltage under load. (Correct)
does not need a voltage controller since an AC generator voltage cannot alter under load. 
does not need a voltage controller since the CSD will ensure constant voltage. 
requires a voltage controller to maintain constant frequency. 

Question 34 (N 80504)
The power required for field excitation of the main rotor in modern constant-frequency alternators is directly controlled by: 
a battery. 
an excitation alternator with a permanent magnet generator. 
an AC generator. 
the voltage regulator. (Correct)

Question 35 (N 47943)
A constant speed drive (CSD) aims at ensuring: 
that the CSD remains at a constant RPM irrespective of the generator RPM. 
that the starter-motor maintains a constant RPM irrespective of the engine acceleration / deceleration. 
an equal AC voltage output from all generators. 
that the electric generator produces a constant frequency. (Correct)

Question 36 (N 34219)
In an aeroplane equipped with a DC main power system, AC for instrument operation may be obtained from: 
a TRU 
a rectifier 
a contactor. 
an inverter. (Correct)

Question 37 (N 36210)
During start of an engine fitted with a brushless AC generator with no commutator rings, the generator is activated by: 
a set of permanent magnets. (Correct)
the stabilizer winding jointly with the voltage regulator. 
the auxiliary winding. 
the main field winding. 

Question 38 (N 33115)
A constant speed drive (CSD) unit which has been disconnected in flight: 
automatically resets in flight provided engine RPM is below a given value. 
may be reset on the ground only, after engine shut down. (Correct)
automatically resets at engine shut-down. 
may be reset in flight using the reset mechanism. 

Question 39 (N 90551)
The output of a generator is controlled by: 
varying the length of wire in the armature windings. 
varying the speed of the engine. 
varying the field strength. (Correct)
the reverse current relay circuit breaker. 

Question 40 (N 8483)
The conditions to be met to activate a shunt generator are: 
presence of a permanent field.
closed electrical circuit.
generator terminals short-circuited.
minimum rotation speed.
1, 3 
2, 4 (Correct) 
1, 2 

Question 41 (N 19059)
Alternating current can be derived from direct current by: 
an inverter. (Correct)
a series wound motor. 
the use of relays. 
an alternating current motor. 

Question 42 (N 91938)
A unit that converts electrical DC into AC is: 
a thermistor. 
an AC generator. 
a transformer rectifier unit. 
an inverter. (Correct)

Question 43 (N 6541)
In order to produce an alternating voltage of 400 Hz, the number of individual poles required in an AC generator running at 6000 RPM is: 
12
8 (Correct) (Calculated derived value)
4 
24 

Question 44 (N 34474)
"Frequency wild" in relation to a AC generation system means the generator: 
output frequency varies with engine speed. (Correct)
output frequency is too high. 
voltage regulator is out of adjustment. 
output frequency is too low. 

Question 45 (N 60574)
A static inverter is a: 
device for reversing the polarity of the static charge. 
unit used to convert DC into AC. (Correct)
filter against radio interference. 
static discharger. 

Question 46 (N 5147)
The primary function of a constant speed drive (CSD) unit in an AC generating system is to: 
directly maintain a constant proportion between the RPM of engine and generator. 
vary the engine RPM (within limits) to compensate for various AC loads. 
vary generator RPM in order to compensate for various AC loads. 
drive the generator at a constant speed. (Correct)

Question 47 (N 85982)
A constant speed drive (CSD) unit is normally provided with means of monitoring the following parameters during the flight: 
oil over temperature and low oil pressure. (Correct)
low oil temperature and low oil quantity. 
oil temperature and synchronous speed. 
output speed and oil pressure. 

Question 48 (N 65900)
In an aeroplane fitted with a constant frequency AC power supply, DC power is obtained from a: 
static inverter. 
rotary converter. 
3-phase current transformer unit. 
Transformer Rectifier Unit (TRU). (Correct)

Question 49 (N 26433)
In flight, if the Constant Speed Drive (CSD) temperature indicator is in the red arc the: 
pilot can disconnect it to allow it to cool and use it again. 
pilot must disconnect it and manually control the alternator. 
pilot must disconnect it, and the generator is not available for the rest of flight. (Correct)
pilot has to throttle back. 

Question 50 (N 57791)
The reason for using inverters in an electrical system is: 
to avoid a short circuit. 
to change the DC voltage. 
to change AC into DC. 
to change DC into AC. (Correct)

Question 51 (N 92857)
The voltage regulator of a DC generator is connected in: 
series with the shunt field coil. (Correct)
series with the armature. 
parallel with the shunt field coil. 
parallel with the armature. 

Question 52 (N 58315)
The main purpose of a constant speed drive (CSD) unit is to: 
maintain a constant frequency. (Correct)
take part in the voltage regulation. 
mechanically protect the alternator drive shaft during coupling. 
take part in the balancing of reactive loads. 

Question 53 (N 49436)
The essential difference between aircraft AC alternators and DC generators (dynamos) is that the: 
the alternators generate much less power than DC generators. 
induced windings of the alternators are rotating (rotor), and the dynamos have a rotary inductor coil. 
alternators supply all of the output current through the commutators and brush assemblies. 
induced (output) windings of the alternators are fixed (stator), and the dynamos have a fixed inductor (field) coil. (Correct)

Question 54 (N 29510)
A CSD (constant speed drive) is a: 
hydromechanical unit and can be disconnected in flight. (Correct)
electromechanical unit and cannot be disconnected in flight. 
hydromechanical unit and cannot be disconnected in flight. 
electromechanical unit and can be disconnected in flight. 

Question 55 (N 13771)
How is the voltage controlled in a modern alternator? 
By increasing the number of windings on the armature. 
By changing the RPM of the high pressure turbine. 
By several diodes connected in series. 
It is directly controlled by the voltage regulator. (Correct)

Question 56 (N 94808)
On an aeroplane using AC as primary power supply, the batteries are charged in flight from: 
a static inverter. 
a DC transformer and rectifier. 
a Transformer Rectifier Unit. (Correct)
the AC bus via current limiters. 

Question 57 (N 66350)
If the electrical load of an AC generator providing a constant output voltage increases, the voltage regulator will: 
increase the excitation current. (Correct)
decrease the excitation current. 
maintain the excitation current constant. 
change the direction of the excitation current. 

Question 58 (N 86356)
A 3 phase AC generator has 3 separate stator windings spaced at: 
45° 
90° 
60° 
120° (Correct) 

Question 59 (N 37746)
When two DC generators are operating in parallel, control of load sharing is achieved by: 
an equalising circuit which, in turn, controls the speed of the generators. 
an equalising circuit which, in conjunction with the voltage regulators, varies the field excitation current of the generators. (Correct)
carrying out systematic load-shedding procedures. 
the synchronous busbar. 

Question 60 (N 98360)
When AC generators are operated in parallel, they must be of the same: 
amperage and kVAR. 
voltage and amperage. 
voltage and frequency. (Correct)
frequency and amperage. 

Question 61 (N 17675)
On detection of a persistent overvoltage fault on an AC generator connected to the aircraft AC busbars (paralleled bus system), the on-board protection device opens: 
the generator breaker and tie breaker. 
the exciter breaker, the generator breaker and tie breaker. 
the generator breaker. 
the exciter breaker and the generator breaker. (Correct)

Question 62 (N 59305)
Refer to figure 021-28. The diagram shown in annex represents a twin engine aeroplane electrical system. Batteries are located positions: 
1, 3 
3, 4 
5, 6 
1, 2 (Correct) 

Question 63 (N 21846)
An aircraft electrical circuit which uses the aircraft structure as a return path to earth, may be defined as a: 
double pole circuit. 
single pole circuit. (Correct)
semi-negative system. 
complete negative system. 

Question 64 (N 2058)
Refer to figure 021-40. GEN 2 can be used to feed the AC BUS 1 when: 
C2-2 and C2-1 are closed. 
C1-4, C2-2 and C2-1 are closed. (Correct)
C1-4, C5-3, C7-4, C7-1 and C5-1 are closed. 
C1-1 is closed. 

Question 65 (N 69335)
Refer to figure 021-30. GEN 2 can be used to feed the DC ESS BUS: 
via AC BUS 2, when C1-4, C3-2 and C5-2 are closed. (Correct)
via AC BUS 2 and AC ESS BUS, when C1-4, C3-2 and C5-2 are closed. 
via AC BUS 2 and AC ESS BUS, when C1-1, C1-4, C3-1, C3-2 and C5-2 are closed. 
via AC BUS 2, when C1-1, C3-1 and C5-2 are closed. 

Question 66 (N 54687)
In an aircraft electrical system where AC generators are not paralleled, the bus tie breaker (relay) may allow: 
connection of the failed AC generator to the opposite generator's busbar. 
connection of the ground power truck to its distribution busbar. 
connection of the AC generator to its distribution busbar. 
power to be supplied to the failed AC generator's busbar. (Correct)

Question 67 (N 79666)
To ensure correct load sharing between AC generators operating in parallel: 
both real and reactive loads must be matched. (Correct)
the matching of loads is unimportant. 
only reactive loads need to be matched. 
only real loads need to be matched. 

Question 68 (N 2204)
The so-called HOT BUSSES or DIRECT BUSSES are: 
providing an alternate current (AC). 
directly connected to the battery. (Correct)
automatically connected to the battery if generators have failed. 
kept in operating conditions by an electrical resistance in the case of energy failure. 

Question 69 (N 25618)
In a two generator system, a differential relay will ensure that: 
only one generator can supply the busbar at the same time. 
one generator comes "on-line" before the other. 
generator voltages are not equal, dependent on load. 
generator voltages are almost equal before the generators are paralleled. (Correct)

Question 70 (N 81175)
Load shedding means: 
reduction of airloads on the flaps by means of the flap load relief valve. 
to leave behind extra cargo if the centre of gravity moves outside limits. 
temporary or permanent switching off of certain electric users to avoid overload of electric generators. (Correct)
a procedure used in control systems to reduce the stick forces. 

Question 71 (N 55822)
The advantages of grounding the negative pole of the aircraft structure are: 
weight saving.
easy fault detection.
increase of short-circuit risk.
reduction of short-circuit risk.
circuits are not single-wired lines.
1, 2, 4 (Correct) 
1, 3, 5 
2, 3, 5 
1, 2, 3 

Question 72 (N 12259)
The function of the generator breaker is to close when the voltage of the: 
generator is greater than battery voltage and to open when the opposite is true. (Correct)
battery is greater than the alternator voltage and to open when the opposite is true. 
alternator is greater than the battery voltage and to open when the opposite is true. 
battery is greater than the generator voltage and to open when the opposite is true. 

Question 73 (N 37760)
The phase relationship between two unparalleled AC generators: 
must be in opposition. 
must be 90° out of synchronisation. 
is unimportant. (Correct)
must be synchronous. 

Question 74 (N 47608)
The advantages of alternating current on board an aircraft are: 
simple connection.
high starting torque.
flexibility in use.
lighter weight of equipment.
easy to convert into direct current.
easy maintenance of machines.
3, 4, 5, 6 (Correct) 
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 
1, 4, 6 
1, 2, 3, 5, 6 

Question 75 (N 27001)
Because of the connection in parallel of electrical equipment on an AC busbar, isolation of individual equipments: 
increases the busbar voltage. 
decreases the busbar voltage. 
decreases the busbar current consumption. (Correct)
increases the busbar current consumption. 

Question 76 (N 89637)
In order for DC generators to achieve equal load sharing when operating in parallel, it is necessary to ensure that: 
their voltages are almost equal. (Correct)
equal loads are connected to each generator busbar before paralleling. 
the synchronising busbar is disconnected from the busbar system. 
adequate voltage differences exists. 

Question 77 (N 22824)
On-board electrical systems are protected against faults of the following type: 
AC generator over-voltage.
AC generator under-voltage.
over-current.
over-speed.
under-frequency.
undue vibration of AC generators.
2, 3, 4, 5, 6 
1, 3, 5, 6 
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 (Correct) 
1, 2, 4, 5 

Question 78 (N 13668)
If two constant frequency AC generators are operating independently, then the phase relation between both generators: 
must be 120° out of phase. 
is unimportant. (Correct)
must be 240° out of phase. 
must be synchronised. 

Question 79 (N 78298)
When the AC generators are connected in parallel, the reactive loads are balanced by means of the: 
frequency. 
excitation current. (Correct)
voltage. 
torque of the constant speed drive (CSD). 

Question 80 (N 88344)
On detection of a persistent phase imbalance between an AC generator connected to the main busbars and other AC generators, the protection device that opens is/are the: 
tie breaker(s). (Correct)
exciter control relay and the generator breaker. 
generator breaker and the tie breaker(s). 
generator breaker. 

Question 81 (N 52860)
A "bus bar" is: 
a device which may only be used in DC circuits. 
a distribution means for electrical power. (Correct)
the stator of a moving coil instrument. 
a device permitting operation of two or more switches together. 

Question 82 (N 42338)
When AC generators are operated in parallel, they must be of the same: 
frequency and amperage. 
voltage and amperage. 
voltage and phase. (Correct)
amperage and kVAR. 

Question 83 (N 72286)
When carrying out battery condition check using the aeroplane's voltmeter: 
the load condition is unimportant. 
the battery should be isolated. 
no load should be applied to the battery because it would depress the voltage. 
a load should be applied to the battery in order to give a better indication of condition. (Correct)

Question 84 (N 42923)
Immediately after starting engine(s) with no other electrical services switched on, an ammeter is showing a high charge rate to the battery: 
indicates a generator failure, thus requiring the engine to be shut down immediately. 
indicates a battery failure since there should be no immediate charging. 
would be normal and is only cause for concern if the high charge rate persists. (Correct)
indicates a faulty reverse current relay. 

Question 85 (N 46153)
Generators, when connected to the same busbar, are usually connected: 
in a series mode. 
dependent on the type of engine. 
dependent on the type of generator. 
in a parallel mode. (Correct)

Question 86 (N 72610)
Direct current generators are connected: 
in parallel to provide maximum voltage. 
in series to provide maximum voltage. 
in parallel to provide maximum power. (Correct)
in series to provide maximum power. 

Question 87 (N 74778)
In the event of an AC generator fault, on a twin engine aircraft, the protection device will open: 
the generator breaker and the bus tie breaker. 
the exciter control relay, the generator breaker and the bus tie breaker. 
the bus tie breaker. 
the exciter control relay and the generator breaker. (Correct)

Question 88 (N 69272)
The measured output power components of a constant frequency AC system are: 
volts and amperes. 
kVA and kVAR. (Correct)
volts and kilowatts. 
amperes and kilowatts. 

Question 89 (N 52487)
Refer to figure 021-34. What is located in the box between DC ESS BUS and AC ESS BUS (marked with red number "1")? 
Generator 
Diode 
Static Inverter (Correct) 
External Power 

Question 90 (N 88338)
Pulling the fire shut-off handle causes a number of devices to disconnect. In respect of the AC generator it can be said that the: 
exciter control relay opens. 
generator breaker opens. 
exciter control relay and the generator breaker open. (Correct)
exciter control relay, the generator breaker and the tie breaker open. 

Question 91 (N 57352)
The type of windings commonly used in DC starter motors are: 
series-shunt-wound. 
compound-wound. 
series wound. (Correct)
shunt-wound. 

Question 92 (N 85892)
To reverse the direction of rotation of a shunt-type (parallel field) DC electric motor, it is necessary to: 
reverse the polarity of the motor connections. 
connect a phase shift capacitor to the field circuit. 
reverse the polarity of either the stator or the rotor. (Correct)
change the connections from shunt to series. 

Question 93 (N 58431)
The speed of an asynchronous 4-pole motor supplied at a frequency of 400 Hertz is: 
12,000 revolutions per minute. (Correct)
6,000 revolutions per minute. 
1,600 revolutions per minute. 
800 revolutions per minute. 

Question 94 (N 38157)
The crank assembly of a piston engine comprises the: 
Crankshaft, camshaft, valve springs. 
Crankshaft, pistons and connecting rods. (Correct)
Propeller, crankshaft, connecting rods. 
Crankcase, crankshaft, pistons and connecting rods. 

Question 95 (N 80241)
The power of a piston engine, which is measured by a friction brake, is: 
brake horse power (Correct) 
heat loss power. 
indicated horse power. 
friction horse power. 

Based on the provided documents, here is the complete list of questions, their options, and the identified correct answers.
Piston and Diesel Engine Technical Questions

Question (N 56401):
Diesel engines, compared to petrol engines have:
a lower compression ratio.
a variable compression ratio.
a higher compression ratio. (Correct) 
the same compression ratio.

Question (N 80792 / N 29939): Both gas turbine and piston engines use a cycle made up of induction, compression, combustion and exhaust phases. Which of these statements about a piston engine are correct or incorrect? 1) The process in a piston engine is intermittent. 2) Theoretically the combustion occurs at constant volume. 

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct) 

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

Question (N 96499):
The part of a piston engine that transforms reciprocating movement into rotary motion is called the:
camshaft.
crankshaft. (Correct) 
piston.
reduction gear.

Question (N 9155):
The power output of a diesel engine without a turbo charger is regulated by:
airflow only.
fuel flow only. (Correct) 
mixture.
fuel flow and airflow.

Question (N 59402):
The power output of a piston engine is directly proportional to:
work and velocity.
force and distance.
torque and RPM. (Correct) 
exhaust back pressure and RPM.

Question (N 36755):
Apart from flight into known icing conditions, the intake system of a diesel engine:
is never heated because a diesel engine is an injection engine.
needs to be heated to prevent ice on the air filter. (Correct) 
needs to be heated at low power settings, due to vaporisation heat.
is never heated because diesel engines operate at very high temperatures.

Question (N 2657):
The working cycle of a four-stroke engine is:
induction, compression, power, exhaust. (Correct) 
induction, power, compression, exhaust.
induction, compression, expansion, power.
compression, induction, power, exhaust.

Question (N 748):
Assuming the same swept volume and no turbo charger, diesel engines compared to petrol engines:
produce less maximum power output. (Correct) 
produce a higher maximum power output.
show a higher fuel flow at the same power output.
operate at higher exhaust gas temperatures.

Question (N 34963):
The correct formula to calculate the total displacement (engine capacity) of a multi-cylinder piston engine is the:
cylinder volume x number of cylinders.
piston area x piston stroke x number of cylinders. (Correct) 
piston area x piston stroke.
cylinder length x cylinder diameter.

Question (N 17656):
On four-stroke piston engines, the theoretical valve and ignition settings are readjusted in order to increase the:
overall efficiency. (Correct) 
compression ratio.
piston displacement.
engine RPM.

Question (N 44162):
The ignition occurs in each cylinder of a four-stroke engine (TDC = Top Dead Centre):
before TDC at each crankshaft revolution.
behind TDC at each second crankshaft revolution.
behind TDC at each crankshaft revolution.
before TDC at each second crankshaft revolution. (Correct) 

Question (N 79243):
Specific fuel consumption is defined as the:
mass of fuel required to produce unit power for unit time. (Correct) 
quantity of fuel required to run the engine for one minute at maximum operating conditions.
designed fuel consumption for a given RPM.
maximum fuel consumption of the aircraft.

Question (N 77673):
The power output of a piston engine can be calculated by:
torque x RPM. (Correct) 
pressure x arm.
work x velocity.
force x distance.

Question (N 96724):
The useful work area in an ideal Otto engine indicator diagram is enclosed by the following gas state change lines:
2 adiabatic, 1 isochoric and 1 isobaric lines.
2 adiabatic and 1 isothermic lines.
2 adiabatic and 2 isochoric lines. (Correct) 
2 adiabatic and 2 isobaric lines.

Question (N 32626): Both gas turbine and piston engines use a cycle made up of induction, compression, combustion and exhaust phases. Which of these statements about a piston engine are correct or incorrect? 1) The process in a piston engine is continuous. 2) Theoretically the combustion occurs at constant pressure. 

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. (Correct) 

Question (N 6593):
Diesel engines always produce a certain amount of soot, because:
the fuel droplets coming from the atomiser do not burn completely. (Correct) 
the fuel droplets are too small.
the intake air is too cold.
the mixture is always too rich.

Question (N 8619):
A piston engine compression ratio is the ratio of the:
swept volume to the clearance volume.
total volume to the swept volume.
clearance volume to the swept volume.
total volume to the clearance volume. (Correct) 

Question (N 5128):
The thermal efficiency of a piston engine is approximately:
50%
30% (Correct) 
75%
90%

Question (N 6156):
Given the following statements about diesel engines:
power is regulated by the throttle valve.
there is no throttle valve.
power is set by the fuel flow.
thermal efficiency is lower than that for a petrol engine.
diesel fuel is less inflammable than petrol.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
1, 3, 5
2, 3, 5 (Correct) 
2, 4, 5
1, 2, 3

Question (N 41172):
In a reciprocating four-stroke engine, the only "driving" stroke is the:
compression stroke.
induction stroke.
exhaust stroke.
power stroke. (Correct) 

Question (N 84285):
Given the following statements about diesel engines:
power is set by the mixture control.
there is no mixture control.
the amount of power is determined by the fuel flow only.
thermal efficiency is higher than that for a petrol engine.
diesel fuel is more inflammable than petrol.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
2, 4, 5
1, 2, 3
1, 3, 5
2, 3, 4 (Correct) 

Question (N 18314):
The torque of an aeroplane engine can be measured at the:
propeller blades.
camshaft.
gear box which is located between the engine and the propeller. (Correct) 
accessory gear box.

Question (N 64103):
The compression ratio of a piston engine is the ratio of the:
area of the piston to the cylinder volume.
diameter of the bore to the piston stroke.
weight of the air induced to its weight after compression.
volume of the cylinder with the piston at bottom dead centre to that with the piston at top dead centre. (Correct) 

Question (N 88986): Both gas turbine and piston engines use a cycle made up of induction, compression, combustion and exhaust phases. Which of these statements about a piston engine are correct or incorrect? 1) The process in a piston engine is intermittent. 2) Theoretically the combustion occurs at constant pressure. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct) 

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.

Question (N 65247):
The thermal efficiency of a diesel engine is higher than that of a petrol engine because:
the compression ratio is much higher. (Correct) 
the EGT is higher.
the air mass flow through the engine is higher.
the calorific value of the fuel is higher.

Question (N 74063):
If an engine detonates during climb out, the normal corrective action would be to:
increase the rate of climb.
apply carburettor heat.
lean the mixture.
retard the throttle. (Correct) 

Question (N 85352):
The relationship between compression ratio of a piston engine and the required fuel octane rating is that the:
higher the compression ratio, the lower the octane rating required.
higher the compression ratio, the higher the octane rating required. (Correct) 
lower the compression ratio, the higher the octane rating required.
required octane rating is independent of the compression ratio.

Question (N 90582):
The use of too low an octane fuel may cause:
detonation. (Correct) 
a cooling effect on cylinders.
higher manifold pressure.
vapour locking.

Question (N 51958):
The cylinder head and oil temperatures may exceed their normal operating ranges if:
the engine is operated at a higher than normal oil pressure.
the engine is operated at a too rich mixture.
a higher octane rating than specified for the engine is used.
a lower octane rating than specified for the engine is used. (Correct) 

Question (N 10244):
Aircraft fuel tanks should be checked for water at least:
before each flight.
immediately after every refuelling.
before the first flight of the day. (Correct) 
during refuelling.

Question (N 90344):
When detonation is recognised in a piston engine, the correct procedure is to:
reduce manifold pressure and lean the mixture.
increase manifold pressure and lean the mixture.
increase manifold pressure and fully enrich the mixture.
reduce manifold pressure and fully enrich the mixture. (Correct) 

Question (N 71306):
Pre-ignition refers to the condition that may arise when:
the mixture is ignited by abnormal conditions within the cylinder before the spark occurs at the plug. (Correct) 
the sparking plug ignites the mixture too early.
a rich mixture is ignited by the sparking plugs.
the mixture is ignited before the piston has reached top dead centre.

Question (N 69790):
The conditions which can cause detonation are:
low manifold pressure and high revolutions per minute.
high manifold pressure and high revolutions per minute.
low manifold pressure and high fuel flow.
high manifold pressure and low revolutions per minute. (Correct) 

Question (N 40956):
On design purpose, the relationship between the fuel octane rating and the maximum compression ratio of a piston engine is:
the maximum compression ratio is independent of the octane rating.
the higher the octane rating is, the higher the maximum compression ratio is. (Correct) 
the lower the octane rating is, the higher the maximum compression ratio is.
the higher the octane rating is, the lower the maximum compression ratio is.

Question (N 3996):
Vapour lock is:
vaporizing of fuel in the nozzles.
the formation of water vapour in a fuel system.
the inability of a fuel to vaporize in the nozzles.
vaporizing of fuel prior to reaching the engine. (Correct) 

Question (N 80239):
The octane rating of a fuel characterises the:
fuel electrical conductivity.
resistance to detonation. (Correct) 
quantity of heat generated by its combustion.
fuel volatility.

Question (N 34412):
Which one of the following factors would be most likely to increase the possibility of detonation occurring within a piston engine?
Using an engine with a low compression ratio.
Slightly retarding the ignition timing.
High cylinder head temperature. (Correct) 
The use of a fuel with a high octane rating as compared to the use of one with a low octane rating.

Question (N 49368):
Vapour lock is:
a blockage in a fuel feed line caused by a fuel vapour bubble. (Correct) 
the abnormal mixture enrichment caused by a greater gasoline vaporisation in the carburettor.
the exhaust gas obstruction caused by an engine overheating.
the effect of water vapour bubbles in the induction manifold caused by condensation.

Question (N 45133):
Vapour lock is the phenomenon by which:
burnt gas plugs forming and remaining in the exhaust manifold following an overheat and thereby disturbing the exhaust.
abrupt and abnormal enrichment of the fuel/air mixture following an inappropriate use of carburettor heat.
heat produces vapour bubbles that can block the fuel line. (Correct) 
water vapour plugs are formed in the intake fuel line following the condensation of water in fuel tanks which have not been drained properly.

Question (N 79595):
A piston engine may use a fuel of a different grade than the recommended:
never.
provided that the grade is higher. (Correct) 
provided that the grade is lower.
provided that it is an aeronautical petrol.

Question (N 62930):
The auxiliary fuel pumps installed on single-engine low-wing aeroplanes are typically used:
during take-off.
during cruise.
during landing.
in emergency situations.
in case of a suspected vapour lock.
in case of failure of the engine fuel pump.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
1, 3, 4, 5, 6 (Correct) 
1, 3, 4, 5
1, 2, 3, 4, 5

Question (N 73546):
In an engine equipped with a float-type carburettor, the low temperature that causes carburettor ice is normally the result of:
freezing temperature of the air entering the carburettor.
compression of air at the carburettor venturi.
vaporization of fuel and expansion of the air in the carburettor. (Correct) 
low volatility of aviation fuel.

Question (N 91692):
Excessive priming of a piston engine should be avoided because:
it drains the carburettor float chamber.
the risk of engine fire.
the risk of flooding the engine.
it fouls the spark plugs.
1, 2, 4
1, 3, 4
1, 2, 3
2, 3, 4 (Correct) 

Question (N 73326):
The main purpose of the mixture control is to:
decrease the oxygen supplied to the engine.
increase the oxygen supplied to the engine.
decrease the air supplied to the engine.
adjust the fuel flow to obtain the correct fuel/air ratio. (Correct) 

Question (N 52962):
In which sections of the carburettor would icing most likely occur?
Accelerator pump and main metering jet.
Main air bleed and main discharge nozzle.
Float chamber and fuel inlet filter.
Venturi and the throttle valve. (Correct) 

Question (N 60508):
The mixture controller of a carburettor:
alters the pressure drop at the main discharge nozzle.
moves the butterfly valve through a separate linkage to the main throttle control.
varies the air supply at the main discharge nozzle.
varies the fuel supply to the main discharge nozzle. (Correct) 

Question (N 34895):
To maintain a constant mixture at low and high power settings in a piston engine, a carburettor is fitted with:
a power jet.
an accelerator pump.
a mixture control.
a diffuser (compensating jet). (Correct) 

Question (N 14974):
The function of the primer pump in a reciprocating engine is to:
provide additional fuel for engine start. (Correct) 
serve as main supply pump in a fuel injection system.
inject additional fuel during engine acceleration.
serve as an alternate pump in case of engine driven pump failure.

Question (N 79442):
Variations in the mixture ratios for carburettors are achieved by the adjustment of:
fuel flow.
fuel flow, airflow and temperature.
fuel flow and airflow. (Correct) 
airflow.

Question (N 69011):
In a piston engine, the purpose of an altitude mixture control is to:
enrich the mixture strength due to decreased air density at altitude.
prevent a weak cut when the throttle is opened rapidly at altitude.
correct for variations in the fuel/air ratio due to decreased air density at altitude. (Correct) 
weaken the mixture strength because of reduced exhaust back pressure at altitude.

Question (N 25568):
The operating principle of float-type carburettors is based on the:
increase in air velocity in the throat of a venturi causing an increase in air pressure.
measurement of the fuel flow into the induction system.
difference in air pressure at the venturi throat and the air inlet. (Correct) 
automatic metering of air at the venturi as the aircraft gains altitude.

Question (N 56902):
With respect to a piston engined aircraft, ice in the carburettor:
will only form at OATs below $+10^{\circ}C$.
may form at OATs higher than $+10^{\circ}C$. (Correct) 
will only form at OATs below the freezing point of fuel.
will only form at outside air temperatures (OAT's) below the freezing point of water.

Question (N 24478):
In addition to the fire hazard introduced, excessive priming should be avoided because:
it washes off the lubricant from the cylinder walls. (Correct) 
the gasoline dilutes the oil and necessitates changing oil.
it drains the carburettor float chamber.
it fouls the spark plugs.

Question (N 90202):
Which statement is correct concerning the effect of the application of carburettor heat?
The volume of air entering the carburettor is reduced, thus leaning the mixture.
The density of the air entering the carburettor is reduced, thus enriching the mixture. (Correct) 
The density of the air entering the carburettor is reduced, thus leaning the mixture.
The volume of air entering the carburettor is reduced, thus enriching the mixture.

Question (N 77653):
A fuel strainer, when fitted to a carburettor will be positioned:
between the needle valve and the metering jet.
upstream of the needle valve. (Correct) 
downstream of the discharge nozzle.
between the metering jet and the discharge nozzle.

Question (N 98543):
The purpose of the barometric correction in a carburettor is to:
maintain the correct weight fuel-to-air ratio when the altitude increases. (Correct) 
maintain a constant fuel flow irrespective of the altitude.
reduce the fuel-to-air mass ratio when altitude increases.
increase the fuel-to-air mass ratio when altitude increases.

Question (N 46511):
When applying carburettor heating:
no change occurs in the mixture ratio.
the mixture becomes richer. (Correct) 
the mixture becomes leaner.
a decrease in RPM results from the lean mixture.

Question (N 85138):
The first indication of carburettor icing during cruise, in aeroplanes equipped with constant speed propellers, would most likely be a:
decrease in RPM.
rough running engine followed by loss in RPM.
rough running engine followed by an increase in manifold pressure.
decrease in manifold pressure. (Correct) 

Question (N 15189):
The purpose of the venturi in a carburettor is to:
prevent enrichment of the mixture due to high air velocity through the carburettor.
ensure complete atomisation of the fuel before entering the injection system.
create a rise in pressure at the throat before the mixture enters the induction system.
create the suction necessary to cause fuel to flow through the carburettor main jets. (Correct) 

Question (N 50645):
The main reason for opening the cowl flaps is to control the:
EGT (exhaust gas temperature).
cabin temperature.
oil temperature.
CHT (cylinder head temperature). (Correct) 

Question (N 133):
On an air-cooled reciprocating engine the cooling airflow is provided by:
a pneumatic system.
ram air. (Correct) 
a turbocharger.
a supercharger.

Question (N 67549):
The purpose of the vents in oil tanks is primarily to:
eliminate foaming.
prevent excessive pressure from building up in tank. (Correct) 
prevent overthrow.
allow for expansion of hot oil.

Question (N 55412):
The dry sump oil system for a piston engine incorporates an oil tank with normally two stack pipes installed. Where can you find those stack pipes?
Both in the sides of the tank.
One in the top and one in the bottom of the tank.
Both in the bottom of the tank. (Correct) 
Both in the top of the tank.

Question (N 65093):
The lubricating system of an air cooled piston engine is used to:
to operate the fuel control unit.
reduce internal friction and provide cooling. (Correct) 
keep the engine warm.
operate constant speed propellers.

Question (N 9253):
Viscosity is:
the temperature dependence of an oil.
the flow velocity inside the oil lines.
the tendency of a liquid or gas to resist flow. (Correct) 
the pressure resistance of an oil.

Question (N 5865):
The reading on the oil pressure gauge is the:
difference between the pressure pump pressure and the scavenge pump pressure.
pressure of the oil on the inlet side of the pressure pump.
pressure in the oil tank reservoir.
pressure of the oil on the outlet side of the pressure pump. (Correct) 

Question (N 91452):
The dry sump oil system for a piston engine incorporates an oil cooler that is fitted:
between the oil tank and the pressure pump.
after the pressure pump but before the oil passes through the engine.
after the oil has passed through the engine and before it enters the sump.
in the return line to the oil tank after the oil has passed through the scavenge pump. (Correct) 

Question (N 17132):
For internal cooling, reciprocating engines are especially dependent on:
a rich fuel/air mixture.
the circulation of lubricating oil. (Correct) 
a properly functioning thermostat.
a lean fuel/air mixture.

Question (N 65201):
For a given type of oil, the oil viscosity depends on the:
quantity of oil.
oil pressure.
oil temperature. (Correct) 
outside pressure.

Question (N 89657 / N 18011):
If the ground wire between the magneto and the ignition switch becomes disconnected, the most noticeable result will be that the engine:
will not operate on the right magneto.
will not operate on the left magneto.
cannot be started with the switch in the ON position.
cannot be shut down by turning the switch to the OFF position. (Correct) 

Question (N 27980):
An aircraft magneto is switched off by:
1) grounding the primary circuit. (Correct) 

opening the primary circuit.

opening the secondary circuit.

grounding the secondary circuit.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is: 1 (as per options given) 

Question (N 92621):
If the magneto selector switch is set to the OFF position a piston engine continues to run normally. The most probable cause is that:
there is a carbon deposit on the spark plugs electrodes.
a wire from the magneto is in contact with a metallic part of the engine.
the grounding wire of one of the magnetos is broken. (Correct) 
there are local hot points in the engine (probably due to overheating of the cylinder heads).

Question (N 16804):
A capacitor in parallel with breaker points:
permits arcing across the breaker points.
induces a very high current across the primary windings.
induces a very high current across the secondary windings.
prevents arcing across the breaker points. (Correct) 

Question (N 34803):
Ignition systems of a running piston engine receive electrical energy from:
generators.
batteries.
capacitors.
rotating permanent magnets. (Correct) 

Question (N 56281):
The very rapid magnetic field changes (flux changes) in the primary coil of a magneto are accomplished by the:
contact breaker points closing.
distributor arm aligning with one of the high tension segments.
rotor turning past the position of maximum flux in the armature.
contact breaker points opening. (Correct) 

Question (N 79810):
A capacitor in parallel with breaker points:
induces a very high current across the primary windings.
induces a very high current across the secondary windings.
permits arcing across the points.
induces a very high voltage across the secondary windings. (Correct) 

Question (N 81001):
An impulse coupling is installed on a magneto of a piston engine to:
facilitate quick removal and installation.
advance the ignition timing.
provide a stronger spark on top dead centre for engine starting. (Correct) 
absorb starting loads.

Question (N 15265):
With an aircraft fitted with a fixed pitch propeller, during flight at normal cruising speed, one magneto fails completely. This will first cause:
loss of approximately 100 RPM. (Correct) 
an additional load on the other magneto.
excessive vibration.
the engine to overheat.

Question (N 62330):
An impulse magneto coupling:
gives a retarded spark at starting. (Correct) 
advances ignition timing and gives a hotter spark at starting.
gives an automatic spark increase during high speed operation.
reduces magneto speed during engine warm up.

Question (N 19770):
The purpose of a contact breaker (ignition switch) is to:
connect the battery to the magneto.
connect the contact breaker and condenser in series with the primary coil.
connect the secondary coil to the distributor.
control the primary circuit of the magneto. (Correct) 

Question (N 67721):
The purpose of a distributor in the ignition system of a piston engine is to distribute:
primary current to the sparking plugs.
secondary current to the condenser.
primary current to the condenser.
secondary current to the sparking plugs. (Correct) 

Question (N 80421):
In a piston engine, the operating principle of magnetos consists of:
obtaining a high amperage, low voltage current in order to generate the spark.
breaking the primary circuit in order to induce a low amperage, high voltage current, which is distributed to the spark plugs. (Correct) 
accumulating in a capacitor a low voltage current from the battery and inducing it as a high voltage current at the moment the spark is generated.
creating a brief high intensity magnetic field that will be sent through the distributor at the appropriate time.

Question (N 5947):
Under normal running conditions a magneto draws primary current:
directly from the aircraft batteries.
from the booster coil.
from the aircraft batteries via an inverter.
from a self-contained electromagnetic induction system. (Correct) 

Question (N 15076):
Dual ignition provides a factor of reliability and:
improves combustion efficiency. (Correct) 
improves starting.
provides more voltage.
saves wear caused by using one magneto constantly.

Question (N 10598):
An impulse coupling is inhibited at higher than normal rotational starting speeds by:
a coil spring.
engine oil pressure.
centrifugal force. (Correct) 
electro-magnetic action of an operating magneto.

Question (N 24390):
Once the engine has started, ignition systems of piston engines are:
dependent on the battery.
dependent on the AC generator.
dependent on the DC generator.
independent of the electrical system of the aircraft. (Correct) 

Question (N 10632):
As altitude increases, if the mixture is not leaned:
the density of air entering the carburettor decreases and the fuel flow increases.
the density of air entering the carburettor decreases and the amount of fuel remains constant. (Correct) 
the volume of air entering the carburettor decreases and the amount of fuel decreases.
the volume of air entering the carburettor remains constant and the fuel flow decreases.

Question (N 82470):
From the cruise, with all the parameters correctly set, if the altitude is reduced, to maintain the same mixture the fuel flow should:
decrease.
remain the same.
increase or decrease, depending on the engine type.
increase. (Correct) 

Question (N 50118):
When excessively leaning the mixture for a better fuel economy, but still on the rich side of the peak EGT, the following engine parameter(s) may exceed their normal operating ranges:
low cylinder head and exhaust gas temperature.
high engine RPM.
high cylinder head and exhaust gas temperature. (Correct) 
high manifold pressure.

Question (N 22143):
At constant RPM with a normally aspirated engine and a fixed pitch propeller, as altitude increases, if the mixture is not leaned:
both the density of air entering the carburettor and the fuel flow decrease. (Correct) 
the volume of air entering the carburettor remains constant and the fuel flow increases.
the mixture remains constant and the fuel flow decreases.
the density of air entering the carburettor decreases and the fuel flow increases.

Question (N 31267):
In a piston engine if the ratio of air to fuel is approximately 9:1, the mixture is:
too weak to support combustion.
normal.
rich. (Correct) 
weak.

Question (N 63788):
A mixture setting richer than best power has to be used during climb segments. This results in a:
higher efficiency.
higher torque.
lower cylinder head temperature. (Correct) 
significant reduction of power.

Question (N 52404):
Maximum exhaust gas temperature (EGT) of a piston engine is theoretically associated with a:
mixture ratio very close to idle cut-out.
cruising mixture setting.
full rich mixture setting.
air to fuel ratio of 15:1. (Correct) 

Question (N 53268):
On the diagram showing the power output of a piston engine as a function of mixture ratio (figure 021-12), theoretical best economy on the rich side of the peak EGT is shown at:
point 1
point 3 (Correct) 
point 4
point 2

Question (N 42249):
An EGT (Exhaust Gas Temperature) indicator for a piston engine is used to:
control the fuel temperature.
assist the pilot to set the correct mixture. (Correct) 
control the cylinder head temperature.
control the carburettor inlet air flow.

Question (N 62092):
As altitude increases, the mixture ratio of a piston engine should be adjusted to:
increase the fuel flow in order to compensate for the decreasing air pressure and density.
reduce the fuel flow in order to compensate for the decreasing air density. (Correct) 
reduce the fuel flow in order to compensate for the increasing air density.
increase the mixture ratio.

Question (N 31370):
When altitude increases, in a normally aspirated piston engine, mixture must be adjusted because there is:
an increase of air density resulting in too lean a mixture.
a decrease in air density resulting in too rich a mixture. (Correct) 
a decrease of air density resulting in too lean a mixture.
an increase of air density resulting in too rich a mixture.


Based on the provided document, here are the extracted questions, their options, and the correct answers as indicated by the green markings in the source material.
Question Q578/934: For a piston engine, the chemically correct fuel/air ratio is: 
1:9
1:13
1:15 (Correct) 
1:10
Question Q579/934: When starting an engine or when the engine runs at an idle RPM on ground, the mixture is: 
rich, because the choke valve is closed.
rich, to make starting possible and to cool the engine sufficiently when idling. (Correct)
lean, to prevent that the engine consumes too much fuel.
rich, because carburettor heat is switched on.
Question Q580/934: When altitude increases without adjustment of the mixture ratio, the piston engine performance is affected because of: 
a decrease of air density with a fuel flow which becomes too low.
a decrease of air density with a fuel flow which becomes too high. (Correct)
an increase of air density with a fuel flow which becomes too low.
an increase of air density with a fuel flow which becomes too high.
Question Q581/934: Overheating of a piston engine is likely to result from an excessively: 
rich mixture.
weak mixture. (Correct)
high barometric pressure.
low barometric pressure.
Question Q582/934: What may happen during a continuous climb with a mixture setting fully rich? 
Increase of the power available.
Fouling of spark plugs. (Correct)
The engine will overheat.
The engine will operate smoother even though fuel consumption is increased.
Question Q583/934: For piston engines fuel/air ratio or mixture is the ratio between the: 
mass of fuel and volume of air entering the carburettor.
volume of fuel and volume of air entering the carburettor.
volume of fuel and volume of air entering the cylinder.
mass of fuel and mass of air entering the cylinder. (Correct)
Question Q584/934: When leaning the mixture for the most economic cruise fuel flow, excessive leaning will cause: 
high engine RPM.
high cylinder head temperature. (Correct)
high manifold pressure.
low cylinder head temperature.
Question Q585/934: When the pilot moves the mixture lever of a piston engine towards a lean position the: 
amount of fuel entering the cylinders is reduced. (Correct)
volume of air entering the carburettor is increased.
amount of fuel entering the cylinders is increased.
volume of air entering the carburettor is reduced.
Question Q586/934: Refer to figure 021-12. When does the mixture get richer? 
From point 3 to point 4.
From point 1 to point 2.
From point 2 to point 4.
From point 4 to point 1. (Correct) 
Question Q587/934: An excessively rich mixture can be detected by:
black smoke from exhaust (Correct)
high cylinder head temperatures.
a long purple flame from exhaust.
white smoke from exhaust.
Question Q588/934: In the event of an engine failure during flight, the blades of a constant speed propeller in a single engine aeroplane not fitted with a feathering system tend to move: 
to a blade angle dependent on windmilling RPM.
towards the smallest blade angle by centrifugal twisting moment and/or spring force. (Correct)
towards the highest blade angle by oil pressure created by the windmilling propeller.
towards the highest blade angle by the aerodynamic twisting moment.
Question Q589/934: The main advantage of a constant speed propeller as compared to a fixed pitch propeller is that it: 
maintains its maximum propeller efficiency over a wider range of airspeeds (Correct) 
has a higher maximum propeller efficiency over a wider range of airspeeds.
does not require propeller blade twist.
has a lower propeller blade stress.
Question Q590/934: When increasing true airspeed with a constant engine RPM, the angle of attack of a fixed pitch propeller: 
reduces. (Correct)
stays constant because it only varies with engine RPM.
stays constant.
increases.
Question Q591/934: During take-off, the angle of attack of the blades of a fixed pitch propeller, optimised for cruise condition is: 
relatively small.
zero.
negative.
relatively high. (Correct)
Question Q592/934: If the manifold pressure is increased, the blade angle of a constant speed propeller will:
increase (Correct)
remain the same.
reduce so that the engine RPM can increase.
increase and after a short time will reduce.
Question Q593/934: The blade angle of a propeller is the angle between the: 
plane of rotation and the relative airflow.
reference chord line and the relative airflow.
reference chord line and the propeller axis of rotation.
reference chord line and the propeller plane of rotation. (Correct)
Question Q594/934: To unfeather a propeller during flight, the pilot typically has to: 
increase speed for aerodynamic un-feathering.
increase speed so as to use the engine unfeathering pump.
manually release the blade latch mechanism.
use an electric unfeathering pump. (Correct)
Question Q596/984: What is the principle advantage of using propeller reduction gears? 
To enable the engine RPM to be increased with an accompanying increase in power and allow the propeller to remain at a lower, more efficient RPM. (Correct)
The diameter and blade area of the propeller can be increased.
To enable the engine RPM to be increased with an accompanying increase in propeller RPM.
To enable the propeller RPM to be increased without accompanying increase in engine RPM.
Question Q695/934: The mechanism to change the propeller blade angle of a small piston engine aeroplane in flight is operated: 
hydraulically by hydraulic fluid.
manually by the pilot.
hydraulically by engine oil. (Correct)
by aerodynamic forces.
Question Q597/934: The slipstream effect of a propeller is most prominent at: 
low airspeeds with high power setting (Correct) 
high airspeeds with high power setting.
low airspeeds with low power setting.
high airspeeds with low power setting.
Question Q598/934: The blade angle of a constant-speed propeller: 
decreases with increasing true air speed.
is independent of the true air speed.
only varies with engine RPM.
increases with increasing true air speed. (Correct)
Question Q599/934: A pilot can actuate the feathering system by: 
pulling the power lever rearwards.
pushing the power lever forwards.
pulling the propeller control lever rearwards. (Correct)
pushing the propeller control lever forwards.
Question Q600/934: An asymmetric loading (p-factor) on the propeller exists: 
only if the "constant speed propeller" mechanism is broken.
if the aeroplane has a large angle of attack. (Correct)
if there is an unbalanced propeller.
only for counter-rotating propeller.
Question Q601/934: Concerning a constant speed propeller of a twin engine aeroplane controlled by a single-acting pitch control unit: 
the spring force turns the propeller blades towards smaller pitch angle.
the oil pressure turns the propeller blades towards higher pitch angle.
the oil pressure turns the propeller blades towards smaller pitch angle. (Correct)
the aerodynamic force turns the propeller blades towards higher pitch angle.
Question Q602/934: When in flight, a piston engine is stopped and the propeller blade pitch angle is near 90°, the propeller is said to be: 
windmilling.
at zero drag.
feathered. (Correct)
transparent.
Question Q603/934: When TAS increases, the blade angle of a constant speed propeller will (RPM and throttle levers are not moved): 
stay constant.
first reduce and after a short time increase to its previous value.
increase. (Correct)
decrease.
Question Q604/934: Fixed pitch propellers are usually designed for maximum efficiency at: 
idling.
take-off.
cruising speed. (Correct)
full throttle.
Question Q605/934: For take-off, the correct combination of propeller pitch and propeller lever position at brake release is:
Low; aft
High; aft
High; forward
Low; forward (Correct)
Question Q606/934: A propeller blade is twisted in order to: 
reduce the blade tangential velocity from root to tip.
maintain a constant angle of attack along the blade. (Correct)
avoid the appearance of sonic phenomena.
allow an increased mechanical load.
Question Q607/934: Excessive pressure in the cylinders of an engine equipped with a constant speed propeller, can be caused by the combination of:
low manifold pressure and high RPM.
high manifold pressure and low RPM. (Correct)
high manifold pressure and high RPM.
low manifold pressure and low RPM.
Question Q608/934: Spark plug fouling is more likely to happen if: 
the engine runs at maximum continuous power for too long.
power is increased too abruptly.
the aircraft descends for a prolonged time at idle power. (Correct)
the aircraft cruises at low speed with the correct mixture.
Question Q609/934: The conditions most likely to produce the highest engine power are: 
cold and humid air at high pressure.
warm and dry air at high pressure.
cold and dry air at high pressure. (Correct)
warm and humid air at low pressure.
Question Q610/934: During climb with constant throttle and RPM lever setting (mixture being constant) the: 
Manifold Absolute Pressure (MAP) decreases. (Correct)
RPM decreases.
RPM increases.
Manifold Absolute Pressure (MAP) increases.
Question Q611/934: When changing power on engines equipped with constant-speed propeller, engine overload is avoided by: 
adjusting fuel flow before the manifold pressure.
reducing the RPM before reducing the manifold pressure.
increasing the manifold pressure before increasing the RPM.
increasing the RPM before increasing the manifold pressure. (Correct)
Question Q612/934: A turbocharger in a reciprocating engine consists of a: 
compressor and turbine mounted on a common shaft. (Correct)
compressor driving a turbine via a reduction gear.
turbine driving a compressor via a reduction gear.
compressor and turbine on individual shafts.
Question Q613/934: The maximum horsepower output which can be obtained from an engine when it is operated at specified RPM and manifold pressure conditions established as safe for continuous operation is termed: 
maximum power.
take off power.
rated power. (Correct)
critical power.
Question Q614/934: One of the advantages of a turbocharger is: 
the power available is less affected by altitude. (Correct)
an increased propulsive efficiency.
that there is no danger of detonation.
that there is no torsion at the crankshaft.
Question Q615/934: The kind of compressor normally used as a supercharger is: 
a hybrid compressor.
a piston compressor.
an axial compressor.
a radial compressor. (Correct)
Question Q616/934: On a normally aspirated aero-engine fitted with a fixed pitch propeller: 
manifold pressure decreases as the aircraft climbs at a fixed throttle setting. (Correct)
the propeller angle of attack is constant at all indicated airspeeds.
in level flight, manifold pressure will remain constant when the RPM is increased by opening the throttle.
in a descent at a fixed throttle setting manifold pressure will always remain constant.
Question Q617/934: The power output of a normally aspirated piston engine increases with increasing altitude at constant Manifold Absolute Pressure (MAP) and RPM because of the: 
lower friction losses.
lower losses during the gas change.
leaner mixture at higher altitudes.
lower back pressure (Correct) 
Question Q618/934: In a piston engine, turbocharger boost pressure may be monitored by: 
both engine RPM readings and a manifold pressure gauge.
a cylinder head temperature gauge (CHT), a manifold pressure gauge, and engine RPM readings.
both a CHT gauge and manifold pressure gauge.
a manifold pressure gauge only. (Correct)
Question Q619/934: With which instrument(s) do you monitor the power output of an aeroplane fitted with a fixed pitch propeller? 
RPM indicator. (Correct)
RPM and fuel flow indicator.
RPM and MAP indicator.
RPM and EGT indicator.
Question Q620/934: The air in a piston engine supercharger enters the centrifugal compressor at:
a tangent to the rotor and leaves via the stator.
the periphery and leaves via the eye of the impeller.
the eye of the impeller and leaves it almost at a tangent to the periphery. (Correct)
the diffuser and is fed to the impeller at the optimum angle of attack.
Question Q621/934: Prolonged running at low RPM may have an adverse effect on the efficiency of the: 
fuel filter.
oil pump.
spark plugs (Correct) 
carburettor.
Question Q622/934: The power output of a piston engine without turbocharging increases with increasing altitude in standard atmosphere at constant MAP and RPM because of the: 
lower frictional losses.
lower cooling losses.
leaner mixture at higher altitudes.
increase of the air density behind the throttle valve. (Correct)
Question Q623/934: If an engine fails to stop with the magneto switch in OFF position, the cause may be: 
switch wire grounded.
defective condenser.
fouled spark plugs.
excessive carbon formation in cylinder head. (Correct)
Question Q624/934: On a normally aspirated engine, the manifold pressure gauge always indicates: 
a greater value than atmospheric pressure when the engine is running.
a lower value than atmospheric pressure when the engine is running. (Correct)
zero on the ground when the engine is stopped.
a value equal to the atmospheric pressure when the engine is at full power on the ground.
Question Q625/934: The primary purpose of a turbocharger is to: 
reduce the fuel flow.
provide a richer mixture at high altitudes.
maintain power at altitude. (Correct)
provide a leaner mixture at sea level.
Question Q626/934: During a climb in a standard atmosphere with constant MAP and RPM indications and at a constant mixture setting, the power output of a piston engine: 
only stays constant if the speed control lever is pushed forward.
stays constant.
increases. (Correct)
decreases.
Question Q627/934: Assume an initial condition at a high cruise altitude with a constant speed propeller. What will happen if the altitude is decreased while the throttle remains fully open and the waste gate is seized in the cruise position? 
The blade angle may reach the full line limit.
The power of the engine will decrease.
The manifold absolute pressure (MAP) value will stay constant.
The manifold absolute pressure (MAP) value may exceed the maximum allowed value. (Correct)
Question Q628/934: The power of a normally aspirated piston engine decreases during a climb with a constant power lever setting because of the decreasing: 
temperature.
engine temperature.
air density (Correct) 
humidity.
Question Q629/934: A turbocharger system in a reciprocating engine is normally driven by: 
an electrically activated hydraulically powered clutch.
an electric motor.
the exhaust system. (Correct)
a hydraulic motor.
Question Q631/934: When the combustion gases pass through a turbine the: 
pressure rises.
pressure drops. (Correct)
temperature increases.
axial velocity decreases.
Question Q632/934: In a gas turbine engine, the maximum gas temperature is attained: 
in the cooling airflow around the flame tube.
across the turbine.
at the entry to the exhaust unit.
within the combustion chamber (Correct) 
Question Q633/934: In a multi spool turbofan engine, the fan is driven by: 
all three turbines since they are on a common shaft with the compressor.
the rearmost turbine. (Correct)
the intermediate turbine.
the foremost turbine.
Question Q634/934: The by-pass air in a turbo fan engine has the effect of a lower specific fuel consumption by causing an overall: 
increase in average exhaust gas flow velocity thus increasing engine pressure ratio.
decrease in combustion chamber temperature and higher thermal efficiency.
increase in the mean jet temperature and increase in thermal efficiency.
decrease in average exhaust gas flow velocity and a higher mass flow. (Correct)
Question Q635/934: Refer to figure 021-19. The engine type represented in the annex is: 
twin spool turbojet. (Correct)
triple spool turbofan.
single-spool turbofan.
twin-spool turbofan.
Question Q636/934: The fan stage of a turbo-fan engine is driven by: 
the High Pressure (HP) compressor through reduction gearing.
the Low Pressure (LP) turbine (Correct) 
airflow drawn across it by the HP compressor.
the HP turbine.
Question Q637/934: In a free turbine engine, the energy delivered by the free turbine stages:
is used to drive the compressor and the main rotor gearbox.
is dependent on the rotational speed of the gas generator. (Correct)
is used to drive the compressor only.
is not connected with the rotation speed of the generator.
Question Q638/934: Given the information about a turbojet engine: Net engine thrust equals:
4000 N.
3.500 N. (Correct)
3000 N.
2500 N.
Question Q639/934: The effect of ram air on the operation of a gas turbine engine is: 
an increase in the indicated airspeed (IAS) at which the aircraft should be flown for optimum range.
a lower efficiency of the engine with an increase in aircraft speed.
an increase in the engine rpm for take-off.
an increase in the efficiency of the engine. (Correct)
Question Q640/934: In a single spool gas turbine engine, the compressor RPM is: 
less than turbine RPM.
independent of turbine RPM.
the same as turbine RPM (Correct) 
greater than turbine RPM.
Question Q641/934: The bypass ratio: 1) is the ratio of bypass air mass flow to HP compressor mass flow. 2) can be determined from the inlet air volume flow and the HP compressor volume flow. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.
Question Q642/936: In the airflow through a single-spool axial flow turbo jet engine, the axial velocity of the air is greatest: 
as it leaves the compressor.
as it leaves the turbine.
within the combustion chamber.
on exit from the propelling nozzle. (Correct)
Question Q643/934: In a gas turbine engine, the propelling jet is generated by: 
expansion of hot gases resulting in a conversion of potential energy (pressure) into kinetic energy (velocity). (Correct)
compression of hot gases resulting in a conversion of potential energy (pressure) into kinetic energy (velocity).
compression of hot gases resulting in a conversion of kinetic energy (velocity) into (mechanical) work.
expansion of hot gases resulting in a conversion of potential energy (pressure) into (mechanical) work.
Question Q600/984: For a subsonic airflow, in a divergent duct the: 
static pressure decreases, speed increases and static temperature increases.
static pressure decreases, speed increases and static temperature decreases.
static pressure increases, speed decreases and static temperature increases. (Correct)
static pressure increases, speed decreases and static temperature decreases.
Question Q645/934: Specific fuel consumption for a turbo prop engine can be expressed in kg per: 
per unit of shaft power.
hour per unit of shaft power. (Correct)
hour per km.
hour per NM.
Question Q646/984: Refer to figure 021-15. The gas turbine illustrated is of the following type: 
single shaft turbine and axial compressor.
free turbine and axial compressor.
free turbine and centrifugal compressor. (Correct)
single shaft turbine and centrifugal compressor.
Question Q647/934: The principle of aeroplane propulsion is to generate a propelling force by: 
pressurising air or gas in order to obtain a reaction force.
heating up air in order to obtain a reaction force.
accelerating air or gas in order to obtain a reaction force. (Correct)
generating a high velocity jet pushing against the outside air.
Question Q648/934: A twin-spool engine with an inlet air mass flow of 500 kg/s and a bypass mass flow of 250 kg/s has a bypass ratio (BPR) of: 
2
3
1 (Correct) 
0
Question Q649/934: Jet engine total efficiency indicates the efficiency at which: 
chemical power in the fuel is transformed into propulsive power (T x V). (Correct)
the increase of jet kinetic energy is transformed into propulsive energy.
chemical power in the fuel is transformed into an increase of jet kinetic energy per second.
potential energy in the jet is transformed into propulsive energy.
Question Q650/934: During take off, the fan in a high by pass ratio turbofan engine produces: 
the greater part of the thrust. (Correct)
half the thrust.
the lesser part of the thrust.
all the thrust.
Question Q651/924: For a subsonic airflow, air passing through a divergent duct: 
decreases in velocity and increases in pressure. (Correct)
increases in pressure and velocity.
increases in velocity and decreases in pressure.
decreases in pressure and velocity.
Question Q652/934: Refer to figure 021-17. You can find the inlet duct between the stations: 
1 and 2 (Correct) 
7 and 8
2 and 2.5
3 and 4
Question Q653/934: For a fan jet engine, the by-pass ratio is the: 
hot air mass flow divided by the fuel flow.
hot air mass flow divided by the cold air mass flow.
fuel flow divided by hot air mass flow.
cold air mass flow divided by the hot air mass flow. (Correct)
Question Q654/934: Which of these statements about a gas turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The process in a gas turbine engine is continuous. 2) Theoretically the combustion occurs at constant pressure. 

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)
Question Q657/934: Refer to figure 021-17. You can find the low pressure (LP) compressor between the stations: 
2.5 and 3 (Correct) 
7 and 8
6 and 7
3 and 4
Question Q658/934: The bypass ratio: 1) is the ratio of bypass air mass flow to HP compressor mass flow. 2) can be determined from the inlet air mass flow and the HP compressor mass flow. 

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)
Question Q659/93: In a free turbine engine: 
the compressor and power output shaft are mechanically connected.
there is no mechanical connection between the compressor and the power output shaft. (Correct)
its power output shaft may be connected to either a compressor or another turbine.
the air enters the compressor via the turbine inlet.
Question Q650/934: Assuming the jet pipe is not choked, the equation to calculate jet engine thrust T (with mass flow m, airspeed Vv and jet velocity Vj) is: 
T = m x (Vv + Vj)
T = m x (Vv - Vj)
T = m x (Vj - Vv) (Correct) 
T = m x Vj
Question Q652/934: Which of these statements about a gas turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The process in a gas turbine engine is continuous. 2) Theoretically the combustion occurs at constant volume. 

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.
Question Q663/234: In a theoretical gas turbine cycle, combustion takes place at constant: 
energy.
temperature.
volume.
pressure. (Correct)


Based on the provided document, here are the extracted questions, options, and their corresponding correct answers:
Question (N 57866): A twin-spool gas turbine engine is one in which the 
LP turbine drives both the LP compressor and the HP compressor. 
LP compressor drives the HP compressor. 
turbines are free to rotate at speeds that differ from their associated compressors. 
LP turbine drives the LP compressor and the HP turbine drives the HP compressor. 
Correct Option: LP turbine drives the LP compressor and the HP turbine drives the HP compressor. 
Question (N 3312): Refer to figure 021-19. You can find the low pressure (LP) compressor between the stations: 
6 and 7 
5 and 6 
2 and 3 
3 and 4 
Correct Option: 2 and 3 
Question (N 73488): The bypass ratio. 1) is the ratio of the volume of air passing through the inlet to that through the HP compressor. 2) can be determined from the inlet air mass flow and the bypass mass flow. 

is correct. 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 1945): A twin-spool engine with an inlet air mass flow of 220 kg/s and a IIP compressor mass flow of 220 kg/s has a bypass ratio of: 
1 
1.1 
0 
10 
Correct Option: 0 
Question (N 44225): Refer to figure 021-17. What is located between station 4 and 5? 
combustion chamber 
HP compressor 
LP compressor 
HP turbine 
Correct Option: combustion chamber 
Question (N 57232): In a subsonic convergent duct the: 
pressure increases, velocity decreases and temperature increases. 
pressure increases, velocity decreases and temperature decreases. 
temperature increases, velocity increases and pressure decreases. 
velocity increases, pressure decreases and temperature decreases. 
Correct Option: velocity increases, pressure decreases and temperature decreases. 
Question (N 65486): A turbofan engine with a bypass mass flow of 888 kg/s and a HP compressor mass flow of 111 kg/s has a bypass ratio of: 
1.12 
9 
7 
8 
Correct Option: 8 
Question (N 59198): Both gas turbine and piston engines use a cycle made up of induction, compression, combustion and exhaust phases. Which of these statements about a gas turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The process in a gas turbine engine is intermittent. 2) Theoretically the combustion occurs at constant pressure. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 78005): Both gas turbine and piston engines utilise a cycle of induction, compression, combustion and exhaust. However in the gas turbine these processes are ___ and combustion occurs at ___. 
intermittent; constant volume 
intermittent; constant pressure 
continuous; constant volume 
continuous; constant pressure 
Correct Option: continuous; constant pressure 
Question (N 88294): Name the correct function of the main components of a turbine engine system. 
A starter and igniter ignite the air-fuel mixture in the combustion system. 
High pressure fuel pumps and a compressor increase the pressure of the air-fuel mixture for starting. 
A turbine compresses and ignites the air-fuel mixture in the combustion chamber. 
A combustion chamber starter and bleed air ignite the air-fuel mixture 
Correct Option: A starter and igniter ignite the air-fuel mixture in the combustion system. 
Question (N 71295): The static thrust of a turbo-jet: 1) equals the product of the exhaust gas mass flow and the exhaust gas velocity. 2) is obtained by pressure of the exhaust gas on the ambient air. 3) is equivalent to zero mechanical power since the aeroplane is not moving. 4) is independent of the outside air temperature. The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is: 
4 
2,3 
1,2 
1,3 
Correct Option: 1,3 
Question (N 79374): Refer to figure 021-19. The station numbers before and after the LP turbine are: 
4 and 5 
6 and 7 
3 and 4 
1 and 2 
Correct Option: 6 and 7 
Question (N 83378): One of the advantages of multiple spool jet engine designs is that: 
a compressor stall cannot occur under any condition. 
engine length can be reduced. 
if one spool seizes, the remaining spool(s) will continue to operate normally. 
a smaller air starter driving only a single spool can be used. 
Correct Option: a smaller air starter driving only a single spool can be used. 
Question (N 49807): By-pass ratio in a turbine engine is the ratio of the: 
speed of the combusted air to the speed of the by-pass air. 
tertiary air mass flow to the primary air mass flow. 
intake air pressure to the turbine delivery air pressure. 
cold air mass flow to the hot air mass flow. 
Correct Option: cold air mass flow to the hot air mass flow. 
Question (N 7421): When the combustion gases pass through a turbine stage the: 
temperature remains constant. 
pressure increases 
temperature increases. 
pressure decreases 
Correct Option: pressure decreases 
Question (N 83299): About a twin spool compressor: 
When operating at very high RPMs, the later stages within the high pressure spool will have a large negative angle of attack. 
The low pressure spool runs at a lower RPM than the high pressure spool. 
Both spools run at the same RPM. 
The low pressure spool runs at a very high RPM, thus preventing the onset of compressor stall. 
Correct Option: The low pressure spool runs at a lower RPM than the high pressure spool. 
Question (N 46777): Which of the following statements is correct about the flow in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake? 1) The speed increases in flow direction. 2) The total pressure increases in flow direction. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 22351): One of the advantages of an annular combustion chamber is: 
that fewer igniters are required. 
a simpler assembly. 
a reduced thermal stress on the turbine. 
a higher structural strength. 
Correct Option: a reduced thermal stress on the turbine. 
Question (N 96474): Which of these statements about a reaction turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The pressure drops across the nozzle guide vanes. 2) The pressure rises across the rotor blades. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 57200): Which of the following statements is correct about the flow in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake? 1) The static pressure increases in flow direction. 2) The total temperature remains constant in flow direction. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 78968): The characteristics of an axial compressor are: 1) a low pressure ratio by stage. 2) a high pressure ratio by stage. 3) the possibility of compressing a large mass airflow. 4) the inability of compressing a large mass airflow. 
1,4 
2,3 
1,3 
2,4 
Correct Option: 1,3 
Question (N 18122): The blades in an axial flow compressor decrease in size from the: 
high pressure to the low pressure stages in order to allow for expansion at increased velocity 
low pressure to the high pressure stages in an attempt to sustain axial velocity. 
root to the tip in order to maintain a constant angle of attack 
root to the tip in order to increase lip clearance. 
Correct Option: low pressure to the high pressure stages in an attempt to sustain axial velocity. 
Question (N 33520): When a gas turbine engine is fitted with can-type combustion chambers: 
a total of only two igniters are usually fitted since the chambers are inter connected 
each chamber has its own igniter. 
each chamber is fitted with two igniters. 
each chamber is fitted with one igniter and one glow plug. 
Correct Option: a total of only two igniters are usually fitted since the chambers are inter connected 
Question (N 71743): When a gas turbine engine accelerates from idle to take off thrust and the compressor RPM is too high in comparison with the air inlet velocity, this may result in: 
stagnation.. 
a compressor stall. 
supersonic airflow at the compressor blade trailing edges. 
a compressor blade airflow angle of attack that is too small. 
Correct Option: a compressor stall. 
Question (N 76202): In addition to providing 'customer' bleed for aeroplane systems, air may be bled from compressors of a turbofan engine to increase stall margin: 
and recover from stall at high rotor speed. 
at high rotor speed. 
at low rotor speed. 
and prevent stall at high rotor speed. 
Correct Option: at low rotor speed. 
Question (N 20672): Static gas temperature decrease when flowing at a subsonic speed through a jet engine exhaust nozzle because the: 
exhaust nozzle is convergent. 
velocity of the gas stream decreases. 
static pressure increases when passing the nozzle. 
ambient air cools the exhaust casing. 
Correct Option: exhaust nozzle is convergent. 
Question (N 85999): Which of these statements about compressor stall are correct or incorrect? 1) A compressor stall is most likely to occur in a compressor designed for a high pressure ratio operating at low RPM. 2) A compressor stall is most likely to occur when the air flow stagnates in the rear stages of the compressor. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 

is correct. 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 90116): Compare the pressure ratio of a centrifugal compressor with the pressure ratio of an axial flow compressor. A typical value of the pressure ratio of an axial compressor is: 
12:1 
35:1 
1.2:1 
5:1 
Correct Option: 35:1 
Question (N 829): The primary reason for a limitation being imposed on the temperature of gas flow in a gas turbine is to: 
prevent damage to the jet pipe from overheating. 
ensure that the maximum acceptable temperature within the combustion chamber is not exceeded. 
ensure that the maximum acceptable temperature at the turbine blades is not exceeded. 
prevent overheating and subsequent creep of the nozzle guide vanes. 
Correct Option: ensure that the maximum acceptable temperature at the turbine blades is not exceeded. 
Question (N 96520): A booster or LP compressor in a twin spool turbofan: 
rotates at the same rotor speed as the IP turbine. 
rotates at a rotor speed different from both fan, HP compressor and HP turbine. 
rotates at the same rotor speed as the HP compressor. 
rotates at the same rotor speed as the fan. 
Correct Option: rotates at the same rotor speed as the fan. 
Question (N 14620): Compare the pressure ratio of a centrifugal compressor stage with the pressure ratio of an axial flow compressor stage. A typical value of the pressure ratio of an axial compressor stage is: 
35:1 
5.1 
12:1 
1.2:1 
Correct Option: 1.2:1 
Question (N 53318): Which of the following statements regarding variable inlet guide vanes (VIGVs) and variable stator vanes (VSVs) on a high-bypass engines is correct? 
VIGVs are located in the front of the fan and control both fan and compressor air flow. 
VSVs are used in the compressor only and are used to increase pressure ratio. 
If VIGVS move towards the open position, VSVs move towards the closed position. 
VIGVs are located at the front of the HP compressor and, together with the VSVs, control compressor airflow. 
Correct Option: VIGVs are located at the front of the HP compressor and, together with the VSVs, control compressor airflow. 
Question (N 5144): Each stage of an axial compressor comprises: 
a row of inlet guide vanes followed by a row of rotor blades. 
a row of rotor blades followed by a row of inlet guide vanes. 
inlet guide vanes followed by a row of rotor blades and a row of stator vanes. 
a row of rotor blades followed by a row of stator vanes. 
Correct Option: a row of rotor blades followed by a row of stator vanes. 
Question (N 97137): The internal geometry of a turbofan intake for a subsonic commercial aeroplane is: 
divergent in order to reduce airflow velocity and increase static pressure in front of the fan. 
divergent in order to increase both airflow velocity and static pressure in front of the fan. 
convergent in order to increase airflow velocity and reduce static pressure in front of the fan. 
convergent in order to reduce airflow velocity in front of the fan. 
Correct Option: divergent in order to reduce airflow velocity and increase static pressure in front of the fan. 
Question (N 13124): Which of the following statements is correct about the flow in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake? 1) The static pressure decreases in flow direction. 2) The total temperature increases in flow direction. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 63700): During the ram recovery process in a gas turbine engine subsonic intake, the: 
static temperature decreases. 
flow velocity decreases. 
total temperature increases. 
total pressure increases. 
Correct Option: flow velocity decreases. 
Question (N 52230): The primary function of the diffuser, located between the compressor and the combustion chamber, of a gas turbine engine is to: 
increase the flow velocity of the compressed air. 
decrease the flow velocity. 
increase total pressure. 
convert kinetic energy into mechanical energy. 
Correct Option: decrease the flow velocity. 
Question (N 17705): Turbine blade stages may be classed as either "impulse" or "reaction". In an impulse blade section the pressure across the nozzle guide vanes and ___ across the rotor blades. 
remains constant, rises 
remains constant, drops 
drops; remains constant 
rises, remains constant 
Correct Option: drops; remains constant 
Question (N 64126): In a gas turbine engine the "creep" phenomenon is the most severe in the: 
combustor liner. 
combustor casing. 
turbine rotors. 
compressor blades. 
Correct Option: turbine rotors. 
Question (N 64566): One of the advantages of annular combustion chamber over a multiple can is that: 
only one igniter is required. 
assembly and disassembly is easier. 
the thermal load distribution on the HP turbine is more favourable. 
engine length is shorter because no diffuser is required. 
Correct Option: the thermal load distribution on the HP turbine is more favourable. 
Question (N 76172): Compressor surge may be controlled by means of: 
fixed inlet guide vanes. 
a pressure drop control orifice. 
bleed valves. 
a variable metering orifice. 
Correct Option: bleed valves. 
Question (N 35945): Compressor stall is due to: 
an inadequate fuel flow. 
an excessively low angle of attack of the rotor blades. 
an excessively high angle of attack of the rotor blades. 
an excessively high axial velocity 
Correct Option: an excessively high angle of attack of the rotor blades. 
Question (N 57445): A stage in an axial compressor: 
is made of ring of stator blades followed by a rotor disc. 
is made of a rotor disc followed by a ring of stator blades. 
has compression ratio in the order of 2.1. 
has a compression ratio in the order of 0.8. 
Correct Option: is made of a rotor disc followed by a ring of stator blades. 
Question (N 86764): An axial compressor, when operating below its design speed, has: 
a tendency to stall in the rear stages. 
no tendency to stall. 
a tendency to stall in the front stages. 
a tendency to stall in the centre stages 
Correct Option: a tendency to stall in the front stages. 
Question (N 32912): The compressor blades in a rotating gas turbine engine are held in position by: 
a centrifugal latch. 
abradable seals and aerodynamic forces. 
the mountings and the resultant of aerodynamic and centrifugal forces. 
the mountings and thermal expansion only. 
Correct Option: the mountings and the resultant of aerodynamic and centrifugal forces. 
Question (N 79742): Turbine blade stages may be classed as either IMPULSE or REACTION. In an impulse turbine stage: 
the pressure drops across the stator blades and remains constant across the rotor blades. 
the pressure remains constant across the stator blades and rises constant across the rotor blades. 
the pressure remains constant across the stator blades and drops across the rotor blades. 
the pressure rises across the stator blades and remains constant across the rotor blades. 
Correct Option: the pressure drops across the stator blades and remains constant across the rotor blades. 
Question (N 38016): The turbine in a gas turbine engine generates shaft power using: 
expansion of hot gas followed by conversion of kinetic energy (velocity) into (mechanical) work. 
compression of hot gas followed by conversion of potential energy (pressure) into kinetic energy (velocity). 
expansion of hot gas followed by conversion of potential energy (pressure) into (mechanical) work. 
compression of hot gas followed by conversion of kinetic energy into (mechanical) work 
Correct Option: expansion of hot gas followed by conversion of kinetic energy (velocity) into (mechanical) work. 
Question (N 89338): Which of the following statements is correct about the flow in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake? 1) The speed decreases in flow direction. 2) The total pressure remains constant in flow direction. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 1195): A diffuser in a gas turbine engine is a device in which the: 
pressure rises at a constant velocity. 
pressure rises and velocity falls. 
velocity, pressure and temperature rise. 
velocity rises and pressure fails. 
Correct Option: pressure rises and velocity falls. 
Question (N 72529): The most unfavourable conditions for adequate inlet air flow of a turbofan engine are: 
maximum thrust during climb out with strong crosswind. 
idle thrust, zero forward speed with no wind. 
maximum thrust at rotation speed on the ground during take off. 
maximum take off thrust, zero forward speed and strong crosswind conditions. 
Correct Option: maximum take off thrust, zero forward speed and strong crosswind conditions. 
Question (N 58370): In the stator of a turbine, the gas velocity "V" and static pressure "p" vary as follows: 
V increases; p increases. 
V increases; p decreases. 
V decreases; p increases. 
V decreases; p decreases. 
Correct Option: V increases; p decreases. 
Question (N 50506): The axial compressor of a gas turbine engine usually has more stages than its driving turbine because: 
bleed air is taken from the compressor. 
the compressor consumes much more power than the turbine. 
turbine speed is much higher than compressor speed. 
the power output of a turbine stage is higher than the power consumption of a compressor stage. 
Correct Option: the power output of a turbine stage is higher than the power consumption of a compressor stage. 
Question (N 56637): The term used to describe a permanent and cumulative deformation of the turbine blades in a gas turbine engine is: 
creep. 
stretch. 
distortion. 
twist. 
Correct Option: creep. 
Question (N 27394): The purpose of a compressor bleed valve is to prevent surging: 
at low compressor RPM. 
generated by foreign object ingestion. 
with altitude. 
of the first compressor stages. 
Correct Option: at low compressor RPM. 
Question (N 75776): In a jet engine the propelling nozzle: 
reduces noise. 
must be designed to obtain the correct balance of pressure and velocity to prevent flow separation. 
decreases the velocity and increases the pressure in the jel pipe to provide greater thrust. 
directs the hot gas stream onto the turbine at the optimum angle of attack... 
Correct Option: must be designed to obtain the correct balance of pressure and velocity to prevent flow separation. 
Question (N 54930): Refer to figure 021-16. A turbine stage is represented by. 
figure 2. 
figure 3. 
figure 1. 
figure 4. 
Correct Option: figure 3. 
Question (N 90694): Which of these statements about a reaction turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The pressure drops across the nozzle guide vanes. 2) The pressure drops across the rotor blades. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 

is correct. 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct. 2) is correct. 
Question (N 14243): One of the purposes of the bleed valves fitted to axial flow compressors is to: 
reduce the tendency to compressor stall. 
control the acceleration time of the engine 
spill compressor air should the engine overspeed thus controlling the speed. 
enable an external air supply to spin up the compressor for engine starting. 
Correct Option: reduce the tendency to compressor stall. 
Question (N 99389): The purpose of variable by-pass valves in a high bypass turbofan engine between the LP compressor and the HP compressor is to: 
prevent fan surge at high rotor speeds (high rpm). 
prevent HPC stall during engine start. 
prevent fan stall and LP compressor stall during engine start and low rotor speeds. 
provide sufficient air to the HPC during engine start. 
Correct Option: prevent fan stall and LP compressor stall during engine start and low rotor speeds. 
Question (N 95584): Which of these statements about an impulse turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The pressure rises across the nozzle guide vanes. 2) The pressure rises across the rotor blades. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 19183): Increasing the frequency of variations in thrust setting during normal operation is detrimental to the life of HP turbine blades because: 
fatigue due to vibration is more severe. 
creep will be more severe. 
low cycle fatigue damage is more severe. 
the EGT limit would be exceeded more often. 
Correct Option: low cycle fatigue damage is more severe. 
Question (N 71443): One advantage of having three instead of two spools in some high-bypass turbofan engine is that: 
fewer variable stator vanes and variable inlet guide vanes are required to prevent compressor stall at low rotor speeds. 
fewer variable stator vanes and variable inlet guide vanes are required to prevent compressor stall at high rotor speeds. 
there is a lower fuel consumption and more thrust due to higher overall pressure ratio. 
there is a lower fuel consumption due to a higher overall pressure ratio. 
Correct Option: fewer variable stator vanes and variable inlet guide vanes are required to prevent compressor stall at low rotor speeds. 
Question (N 65280): Which of these statements about a reaction turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The pressure drops across the nozzle guide vanes. 2) The pressure remains constant across the rotor blades. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 

is correct. 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 68331): Which of these statements about a reaction turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The pressure rises across the nozzle guide vanes. 2) The pressure drops across the rotor blades. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 

is correct. 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 

is incorrect. 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 93829): The characteristics of a centrifugal compressor are! 1) a high pressure ratio by stage. 2) a large diameter. 3) a low pressure ratio by stage. 4) a small diameter. 
1,4 
1,2 
2,3 
3,4 
Correct Option: 1,2 
Question (N 16859): Some gas turbine engines have multiple stages in the HP and LP turbines: 
to help stabilise the pressure between the compressor and the turbine. 
to reduce noise in the propelling nozzle. 
because one stage does not generate sufficient shaft power. 
to facilitate balancing of the turbine assembly. 
Correct Option: because one stage does not generate sufficient shaft power. 
Question (N 27451): The function of the drain valve in a gas turbine combustion chamber is to: 
remove unburned fuel from the combustion chamber. 
vent the combustion chamber after engine shutdown. 
prevent a wet start. 
check whether the fuel nozzles leak fuel after engine shutdown. 
Correct Option: remove unburned fuel from the combustion chamber. 
Question (N 68985): In which part of a gas turbine engine are high temperature requirements most critical for the materials used? 
The combustion chamber and exhaust nozzle. 
The turbine and exhaust nozzle. 
The last part of the HP compressor and front part of the HP turbine. 
The combustion chamber and front part of the HP turbine. 
Correct Option: The combustion chamber and front part of the HP turbine. 
Question (N 61087): The purpose of the blow-in-doors at the air inlets is to: 
serve to increase the relative velocity at the first compressor stage. 
provide the engine with additional air at high power settings and low air speeds. 
provide the engine with additional air at high power settings at cruising speed. 
feed cooling air to the engine cowling. 
Correct Option: provide the engine with additional air at high power settings and low air speeds. 
Question (N 69461): Which of these statements about an impulse turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The pressure drops across the nozzle guide vanes. 2) The pressure remains constant across the rotor blades. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 80497): Which of the following statements is correct about the flow in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake? 1) The dynamic pressure decreases in flow direction. 2) The static temperature increases in flow direction. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 

is correct. 2) is incorrect 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Question (N 7752): Creep in a gas turbine engine is: 
the elastic increase in length of metal parts due to tensile stress and high temperatures. 
expansion of metal parts due to temperature increase. 
the permanent increase in length of metal parts due to a combination of tensile stress and high temperatures over a prolonged period. 
crack formation in metal parts due to cyclic mechanical loads and high temperatures. 
Correct Option: the permanent increase in length of metal parts due to a combination of tensile stress and high temperatures over a prolonged period. 
Question (N 19180): In the axial flow compressor the flow duct is tapered. Its shape is calculated so as to: 
maintain a constant axial speed in cruising flight. 
reduce the axial speed, whatever the engine rating. 
reduce the axial speed in cruising flight. 
maintain a constant axial speed whatever the engine rating 
Correct Option: maintain a constant axial speed in cruising flight. 
Question (N 24306): Which of these statements about compressor stall are correct or incorrect? 1) A compressor stall is most likely to occur in a compressor designed for a high pressure ratio operating at high RPM. 2) A compressor stall is most likely to occur when the air flow stagnates in the rear stages of the compressor. 

is correct. 2) is correct. 

is incorrect. 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect. 2) is correct. 
Question (N 24639): Refer to figure 021-16. An axial compressor stage is represented by: 
figure 4. 
figure 1. 
figure 3 
figure 2. 
Correct Option: figure 1. 
Question (N 41510): Which of the following statements is correct about the flow in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake? 1) The dynamic pressure decreases in flow direction. 2) The static temperature decreases in flow direction. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 70394): Which of these statements about an impulse turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The pressure remains constant across the nozzle guide vanes. 2) The pressure drops across the rotor blades. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 21830): One of the functions of a gas turbine engine subsonic intake is to: 
increase total pressure. 
decrease airflow velocity 
decrease static temperature. 
increase airflow velocity. 
Correct Option: decrease airflow velocity 
Question (N 64913): Which of the following parameters remains constant in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake? 
Static temperature, 
Dynamic pressure. 
Static pressure. 
Total temperature. 
Correct Option: Total temperature. 
Question (N 67435): Which of the following statements is correct about the flow in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake? 1) The static pressure increases in flow direction. 2) The total temperature increases in flow direction. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
Correct Option: 1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 57593): In a turbo-jet engine, the purpose of the turbine is to: 
clear the burnt gases, the expansion of which provide the thrust. 
drive the compressor by using part of the energy from the exhaust gases. 
compress the air in order to provide a better charge of the combustion chamber. 
drive devices like pumps, regulator, generator. 
Correct Option: drive the compressor by using part of the energy from the exhaust gases. 
Question (N 98055): Compressor stall in a gas turbine engine: 
is unlikely to occur in a compressor with many stages. 
only occurs during engine start-up. 
does not occur with well-designed compressor blades. 
can be caused by an axial airflow velocity that is low relative to the rotor speed. 
Correct Option: can be caused by an axial airflow velocity that is low relative to the rotor speed. 
Question (N 15136): Which of these statements about compressor stall are correct or incorrect? 1) A compressor stall is most likely to occur in a compressor designed for a high pressure ratio operating at high RPM. 2) A compressor stall is most likely to occur when the air flow stagnates in the front stages of the compressor. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 44353): In a compressor stage of a gas turbine engine, the sequence is: 
stator - stator - rotor 
stator - rotor 
rotor - stator 
rotor - rotor - stator 
Correct Option: rotor - stator 
Question (N 39866): Engine temperature limitations of a gas turbine engine are usually imposed due to temperature limitations on the: 
casing of the combustion chamber. 
turbine section. 
jet pipe. 
compressor section 
Correct Option: turbine section. 
Question (N 48644): After air has passed through the compressor of a gas turbine engine the: 
velocity will be higher than the inlet velocity. 
velocity will be the same as the inlet velocity. 
pressure will be the same as the inlet pressure. 
temperature will be higher than the inlet temperature. 
Correct Option: temperature will be higher than the inlet temperature. 
Question (N 48484): In a gas turbine combustion chamber: 
the gas temperature is highest at the chamber outlet. 
secondary air is required for cooling of the inner casing. 
the axial velocity of the gas stream is greatest behind the swirl vanes. 
the gas pressure increases in an axial (downstream) direction, 
Correct Option: secondary air is required for cooling of the inner casing. 
Question (N 4578): Which of these statements about a reaction turbine are correct or incorrect? 1) The pressure remains constant across the nozzle guide vanes. 2) The pressure rises across the rotor blades. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
1) is correct, 2) is correct. 
Correct Option: 1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Question (N 95292): The disadvantages of axial flow compressors compared to centrifugal flow compressors are: 1) more expensive to manufacture. 2) lower airflow. 3) greater vulnerability to foreign object damage. 4) lower pressure ratio. 
1,2 
2,3 
1,3 
2,4 
Correct Option: 1,3 
Question (N 68101): One of the purposes of compressor bleed valves is to: 
decrease the load on the compressor when the engine is approaching maximum RPM. 
increase the airflow across the rear compressor stages, whilst that across the early stages is decreased. 
decrease the airflow across the rear compressor stages, whilst that across the early stages is increased. 
limit the acceleration period of the engine. 
Correct Option: decrease the airflow across the rear compressor stages, whilst that across the early stages is increased. 
Question (N 85026): The air flow passages between adjacent axial compressor rotor blades are divergent, but the absolute exit velocity is higher than the absolute entry velocity of the rotor. This is because: 
the gas expands between the blades. 
the compressor rotational velocity slows down the air flow. 
it is a constant temperature process. 
part of the compressor work delivered to the air is converted into kinetic energy. 
Correct Option: part of the compressor work delivered to the air is converted into kinetic energy. 
Question (N 80226): The rotor blades of an axial compressor of a gas turbine engine are often mounted on a disk or drum using a "loose fit" because this: 
limits damage to the blades due to vibration. 
limits FOD damage. 
facilitates easy assembly and removal. 
limits damage due to creep. 
Correct Option: limits damage to the blades due to vibration. 

Below are the extracted questions, options, and identified correct answers from the provided document.
764/934
Ice formation on turbofan engine intakes is usually:
prevented by using compressor bleed air. (Correct)
removed by using electrical heating.
prevented by using turbine bleed air
removed by using pneumatic boots. 
765/934
The purpose of a variable bypass valve, fitted between the LP and HP compressor of an axial flow compressor, is to:
prevent the engine from an overspeed.
enable to start the engine with an external air supply.
control the acceleration of the engine.
prevent stall in the LP compressor. (Correct) 
766/934
Which of the following statements is correct about the flow in a divergent (subsonic) gas turbine engine intake?
The dynamic pressure remains constant in flow direction.
The static temperature remains constant in flow direction.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. (Correct) 
767/934
Severe compressor stall can be indicated amongst others by:
an increase in engine pressure ratio (EPR) and a decrease in TGT and fuel flow.
a rise in TGT and an increase in fuel flow.
a decrease in TGT and a change in vibration level.
a rise in turbine gas temperature (TGT) and a change in vibration level. (Correct) 
768/934
In a gas turbine engine, compressor blades, which are not rigidly fixed in position when the engine is stationary, take up a rigid position when the engine is running due to:
oil pressure.
thermal expansion.
blade creep.
the resultant of aerodynamic and centrifugal forces. (Correct) 
Q769/934
Creep of turbine blades is caused by:
static imbalance of the blades.
bending stresses set up by gas pressure.
high blade temperature whilst under centrifugal loading. (Correct)
prolonged idling at low RPM 
Q770/934
One reason to fit a tip shroud to a turbine blade is to:
reduce turbine temperatures.
increase turbine efficiency. (Correct)
prevent blade creep.
provide a seal for the cooling airflow. 
Q771/934
The function of the swirl vanes round the fuel nozzles is to:
increase air pressure at the fuel nozzles.
reduce the average axial flow speed in order to stabilise the flame front.
generate a swirl of incoming air to enhance mixing of the fuel with air.
1, 2, 3
2, 3 (Correct)
1, 2
1, 3 
Q772/934
Which of these statements about an impulse turbine are correct or incorrect?
The pressure rises across the nozzle guide vanes.
The pressure drops across the rotor blades.

is correct, 2) is correct.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
773/934
The compressor pressure ratio of an axial flow compressor is primarily determined by the:
compressor inlet temperature design value.
rotor diameter.
compressor inlet pressure design value.
number of stages. (Correct) 
774/934
On a FADEC gas turbine engine during normal flight, the power for the FADEC's sensors comes from:
the FADEC power source(s) on the engine. (Correct)
the aircraft generator.
the aircraft battery.
the APU generator. 
775/934
Concerning the starting procedure of a gas turbine engine:
If the HP fuel valve is opened at a relatively high compressor rpm, this may result in a hot start.
If the air starter seizes, the engine can still be started by means of another air bleed source.
the selected igniters are activated before fuel is delivered to the fuel nozzles. (Correct)
the higher the starter air pressure, the higher the EGT during starting. 
776/934
The FADEC of a gas turbine engine normally includes:
an engine overspeed and/or an EGT protection function. (Correct)
the engine fire loops.
an overheat protection for the electronic engine control unit.
an excessive fuel flow detection function. 
77/934
A magnetic plug in an engine oil system can be used to:
collect ferrous particles. (Correct)
collect carbon found in the oil.
prevent metallic particles from entering the oil system.
collect static electricity. 
778/934
In a gas turbine engine, the power changes are normally made by controlling the amount of:
fuel supplied. (Correct)
air entering the compressor and fuel entering the combustion chambers.
air leaving the compressor by opening or closing of bleed valves.
air entering the compressor. 
Q779/934
The purpose of a chip detector in the oil system of an engine/gearbox is to indicate that:
the piston rings are worn.
the seals are worn.
the oil temperature is too high.
there are metal particles in the oil. (Correct) 
780/934
The thrust reversers of jet engines may use clamshell doors in order to:
stop the flow of the exhaust gas stream.
change the direction of the exhaust gas stream. (Correct)
absorb any surge in engine thrust.
reduce the pressure of the exhaust gas stream by diffusing it to atmosphere. 
781/934
A reverse thrust alert on the flight deck occurs when:
the reverser doors are unlocked with the reverse lever in the stowed position.
the reverser doors are locked with the reverse lever in the stowed position.
the reverser doors remain stowed with the reverse lever in the deployed position.
the reverser doors have moved to the reverse thrust position with the reverse lever in the deployed position.
1, 4
2, 3
2, 4
1, 3 (Correct) 
782/934
Engine auxiliary gearboxes:
provide the drives for a wide variety of services and may even provide for the support of the engine in the airframe. (Correct)
never provide a torque sensing facility.
are driven by the output from the free power turbine.
always provide drives for fuel pumps, oil pumps, speed sensing and torque sensing. 
783/934
The pressurising function of the pressurising and dump valve in a gas turbine engine fuel system is:
to admit fuel to the nozzles only if the fuel pressure is high enough for sufficient atomisation. (Correct)
to prevent fuel leakage in the combustion chamber after engine shutdown.
to prevent overpressure at the fuel nozzles.
to admit oil to the fuel-oil heat exchanger preventing ice crystals blocking the fuel lines. 
Q784/934
The FADEC (Full Authority Digital Engine Control) provides:
engine automatic shut-down if maximum N1 is exceeded.
engine automatic shut-down if maximum EGT is exceeded.
automatic thrust rating control.
fully automatic engine starting.
3, 4 (Correct)
1, 3
2, 3, 4
1, 3, 4 
Q785/934
The fuel-oil heat exchanger:
cools the oil only.
cools the oil and heats the fuel. (Correct)
heats the fuel only.
cools both the oil and the fuel. 
Q786/934
After a successful start of a high bypass turbofan engine, the air starter:
is disengaged by the coupling between engine N1 spool and starter by the use of centrifugal forces.
is disengaged by using a clutch that is controlled by the main engine control.
remains engaged and rotates continuously with the N2 spool.
is disengaged by the coupling between engine N2 spool and starter by the use of centrifugal forces. (Correct) 
Q787/934
An aircraft flying in conditions of continuous heavy rain and high ambient temperatures may require the precautionary use of:
engine igniters. (Correct)
both engine intake anti-icing and airframe de-icing.
engine intake anti-icing only.
airframe de-icing only. 
788/934
Engine oil reservoirs are sometimes located at the front of the engine:
to allow the hot oil to heat the air intake.
to utilise the structure necessary to contain the oil to form the engine accessory gearbox and provide mounting points for oil and fuel pumps. (Correct)
because it is the most distant position from the exhaust.
to provide an attachment point for the mounting of the compressor and turbine bearings. 
789/934
The reason for having a low pressure fuel-cooled oil cooler in a recirculatory type oil system is to:
heat the fuel only.
cool the oil only.
cool the oil and heat the fuel. (Correct)
cool both the oil and the fuel. 
790/934
Fuel for gas turbine engines is usually heated in order to:
improve the specific fuel consumption.
improve atomisation at low temperature.
prevent icing-up of the LP filter. (Correct)
improve thermal efficiency. 
Q791/934
The use of igniters in a gas turbine engine is required:
throughout the operating range of the engine
during engine accelerations
for ground starts
for in-flight relights
during turbulence in flight
under heavy precipitation or in icing conditions
1
3
3, 4, 5, 6 (Correct)
2, 3, 4 
Q792/934
For a turbine engine, the self-sustaining speed relates to the minimum RPM at which the engine:
operates most efficiently in the cruise.
is designed to IDLE after starting.
will continue to operate without any starter motor assistance. (Correct)
will enable the generators to supply bus-bar voltage. 
793/934
The primary reason for venting an engine oil tank is to:
prevent excessive pressure in the tank. (Correct)
allow for expansion of hot oil.
prevent overflow.
cool the oil. 
794/934
The meaning of abbreviation "FADEC" on a gas turbine engine is:
Full Authority Digital Engine Control (Correct)
Failsafe Adapter Direct Effect Computation.
Failure Analysis / Dispatch Evaluation Computer.
Fool Adapter Dual Electronic Computer. 
Q795/934
Concerning the fuel system high-pressure shut-off valve (HPSOV) of a gas turbine engine:
manual HPSOV control from the cockpit is not possible with FADEC equipped engines.
ignition is activated before fuel is delivered by the HPSOV to the fuel nozzles. (Correct)
the HPSOV is mounted in the wing front spar near the pylon.
the HPSOV is located between the HP fuel pump and the fuel control unit. 
Q796/934
The primary input signals for a hydro-mechanical gas turbine engine fuel control system include:
N1, N2, bypass ratio, fuel shut-off, thrust lever angle.
N2, turbine inlet temperature, fuel shut-off, generator, thrust lever angle.
N2, bypass ratio, EPR, fuel shut-off, thrust lever angle.
N2, compressor discharge pressure, compressor inlet temperature, fuel shut-off, thrust lever angle. (Correct) 
797/934
In an ignition system during a normal start of a gas turbine engine, igniter activation:
should commence prior to starter motor engagement to prevent a hot start.
should commence prior to fuel entering the combustion chamber. (Correct)
commences upon starter motor engagement, and is deactivated at a rotor speed of approximately 15% below idle rpm.
should commence after fuel has entered the combustion chamber. 
798/934
The oil system of a gas turbine engine may be fitted with magnetic plugs, or chip detectors, that:
provide warning of impending failure without having to remove the filters for inspection. (Correct)
monitor oil pressure and oil temperature.
are fitted in the pressure line upstream of the oil filter.
dispense with the requirement to fit an oil filter. 
799/934
If a gas turbine engine fuel/oil heat exchanger is located downstream of the HP fuel pump, internal leakage of the heat exchanger will cause the oil level to:
fall and the oil jets eventually to become clogged.
fall.
rise. (Correct)
rise and the fuel nozzles eventually to become clogged. 
Q800/984
The purpose of magnetic chip detectors is to:
perform the function of a micron filter.
remove large items of debris from the system.
warn of impending failure. (Correct)
Increase lubricating oil adhesion to main surfaces. 
Q801/934
The electronic engine control unit of a gas turbine engine FADEC uses data from:
aircraft systems.
cockpit display units.
its own engine sensors.
electronic engine control units of the other engine(s).
2, 4
2, 3
1, 4
1, 3 (Correct) 
802/934
The FADEC (Full Authority Digital Engine Control):
provides fully automatic engine starting.
modifies aircraft airspeed in order to allow for the lowest fuel consumption.
counters any yaw movement in case of engine failure.
provides thrust reverser control.
1, 2, 4
1, 4 (Correct)
1, 2, 3, 4
2 
803/934
A FADEC on a gas turbine engine:
consists of two identical channels cross linked through an non engine related aircraft computer.
is a three channel system.
is single fault tolerant. (Correct)
is a single channel system. 
804/934
On most high by-pass ratio (fan) engines, reverse thrust is achieved by reversing:
only the direction of the fan airflow. (Correct)
the direction of rotation of the fan.
only the direction of the exhaust gas flow.
the direction of both the exhaust gas flow (hot stream) and the fan airflow (cold stream). 
805/934
The fuel/oil heat exchanger in a turbine engine uses:
engine oil and is connected to the high pressure area.
hydraulic fluid and is connected to the high pressure area.
hydraulic fluid and is connected to the low pressure area.
engine oil and is connected to the low pressure area. (Correct) 
Q806/934
The FADEC (Full Authority Digital Engine Control) can provide:
thrust reverser control.
engine operation within safe limits.
automatic engine starting sequence.
automatic thrust rating control.
2, 3, 4
2, 4
1, 2, 3, 4 (Correct)
1, 2, 4 
Q807/934
The Throttle Lever Angle (TLA) information of a FADEC controlled gas turbine engine is provided:
to the hydro mechanical main engine control.
via cables and pulleys.
to the electronic engine control unit by a direct electrical wiring connection. (Correct)
to a single dedicated channel of the FADEC. 
808/934
The FADEC of a gas turbine engine consists of:
an electronic engine control unit and the engine display units in the cockpit.
an electronic engine control unit only.
all electronic engine control units installed on the aircraft.
an electronic engine control unit and its peripherals (fuel metering, actuators, electrical wiring, sensors...). (Correct) 
809/934
Most high-bypass turbofan engines are equipped with a cold exhaust reverser (fan reverser) only in order to:
prevent extra fuel consumption due to operation of the hot exhaust reverser (turbine reverser).
prevent disturbance of cold exhaust reversed airflow by the hot exhaust reversed gas flow.
reduce the risk of exhaust gas re-ingestion.
save costs and mass at the expense of a reduction in available reverse thrust. (Correct) 
810/934
A Full Authority Digital Engine Control (FADEC) has the following functions:
flow regulation (fuel, decelerations and accelerations monitoring).
automatic starting sequence.
transmissions of engine data to the pilot's instruments.
thrust management and protection of operation limits.
monitoring of the thrust reversers.
1, 3, 4, 5
2, 4, 5
1, 3, 5
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 (Correct) 
Q811/934
The electronic engine control of a FADEC gas turbine engine checks:
input data only.
output data only.
ACTIVE CHANNEL input and output data only.
all input and output data. (Correct) 
817/934
If there is a single input data failure on a FADEC gas turbine engine:
the electronic engine control unit uses a constant data value for computation.
the engine stops.
the engine is set at a fail-safe thrust.
the engine continues to operate normally. (Correct) 
813/934
Labyrinth seals in the lubrication system of a gas turbine engine are designed to provide a seal that is:
not completely tight, allowing some movement between rotating and static parts. (Correct)
not completely tight, allowing only some radial movement between rotating and static parts.
completely tight, allowing no movement between rotating and static parts.
completely tight, allowing some axial movement between rotating and static parts. 
Q814/934
The accessory units driven by the accessory gearbox of a turbo-jet engine are the:
thrust reverser pneumatic motors.
AC generator through its constant speed drive (CSD).
oil pumps.
hydraulic pumps.
high pressure fuel pumps.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5
2, 3, 4, 5 (Correct)
2, 3, 4
1, 2, 3, 4 
815/934
To achieve reverse thrust on a turbine engine with a high by-pass ratio, generally:
the flow of hot stream air is reversed.
the fan is stopped.
the fan flow is deflected. (Correct)
the direction of rotation of the fan is reversed. 
816/934
The function of a vibrator in some gas turbine ignition systems is to provide:
a DC current to the transformer to facilitate the generation of a higher voltage to the igniters.
an AC voltage in order to facilitate transformation to a higher voltage. (Correct)
DC current if the ignition system is fed by AC voltage.
a pulsating AC voltage in order to generate a more powerful spark. 
Q817/934
The oil supply to gas turbine engine bearings is maintained in the event of the main oil filter becoming clogged by:
differential pressure opening the bypass valve of the main oil filter. (Correct)
the scavenge pumps.
a back-up oil system.
the HP fuel pump. 
Q818/934
A hung (abortive) start of a gas turbine engine may be caused by:
compressor surging.
failure of the fuel to ignite in the starting sequence after the engine has been accelerated to the required rpm by the starter.
a too low pneumatic starter pressure. (Correct)
the starter cutting out early in the starting sequence before the engine has accelerated to the required rpm for ignition. 
819/934
A gas turbine engine is run at ground idle for a period of time prior to shutdown to:
prevent seizure of the engine bearings.
prevent vapour lock in the fuel control and/or fuel lines.
prevent seizure of the rotor blades in their seals. (Correct)
allow the engine oil to cool. 
820/934
The following problems may occur when starting a twin-spool turbofan engine:
no N2 rotation, although N1 may accelerate normally.
no N1 rotation, although N2 may accelerate normally. (Correct)
a hung (abortive) start with no light-up indication after 'fuel-on' selection.
a hung (abortive) start with fuel flow indication zero after 'fuel on' selection. 
821/934
With regard to a twin spool turbofan, an abortive start (hung start) will result in:
N2 speed stabilising at a lower than normal RPM and a subsequent increase in EGT. (Correct)
N2 speed stabilising at a higher than normal RPM and a subsequent increase in EGT.
N2 speed stabilising at a lower than normal RPM and a subsequent decrease in EGT.
N2 speed stabilising at a higher than normal RPM and a subsequent decrease in EGT. 
Q822/934
An abortive (hung) start is the term used to describe an attempt to start in which the engine:
will not rotate.
fails to light up.
commences initial rotation, but fails to receive any fuel.
lights up, but fails to accelerate sufficiently. (Correct) 
Q823/984
Which of the jet engine ratings below is not a certified rating?
Maximum Take-off Thrust.
Go-Around Thrust.
Maximum Cruise Thrust. (Correct)
Maximum Continuous Thrust. 
824/934
The purpose of gas turbine engine trending is:
to assess engine condition using non-destructive inspection.
to enhance maintenance planning and detect anomalies. (Correct)
to obtain a timely indication when an engine requires to be shut down due to problems.
to collect metal particles from the oil system. 
Q825/934
The control of free turbine engines on turboprops, is accomplished by:
PROPELLER control lever used to select:
propeller RPM
turbine temperature
turbine RPM
FUEL control lever used to select:
propeller RPM
torque
turbine temperature
1, 3, 5
1, 5, 6 (Correct)
3, 4, 6
2, 4, 5 
Q826/934
If the main oil filter of a gas turbine engine becomes clogged, oil to the main bearings is still assured:
if a higher engine RPM is selected to increase oil pressure.
if breather pressure in the main compartments is increased to ensure positive lubrication of the bearings.
because fuel upstream of the oil filter will be mixed with oil to allow easier passage through the filter.
because the oil filter bypass valve opens. (Correct) 
827/934
The primary performance indicator (cockpit instrument) for the thrust of a turbofan engine is:
either N1 or fuel flow.
either EPR or N1. (Correct)
either torque or RPM.
either N1 or N2. 
Q828/934
Which statement is correct for a gas turbine engine with a constant speed propeller and free power turbine, when the power setting is decreased?
The HP spool speed decreases.
The EGT decreases.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Q829/934
Which statement is correct for a gas turbine engine with a constant speed propeller and free power turbine, when the power setting is increased?
The gas generator speed remains constant.
The EGT decreases.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
1) is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is correct, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
Q830/934
Exhaust gas temperature sensing is usually taken:
between the stages of the gas generator turbine.
after the free power turbine.
at the outlet from the combustion chamber.
between the gas generator turbine and the free power turbine. (Correct) 
831/934
In very cold weather, a slightly higher than normal engine oil pressure during startup:
requires an oil change.
is unacceptable but does not require the engine to be shut down.
is unacceptable and requires the engine to be shut down.
is acceptable, if it decreases after startup. (Correct) 
832/934
On landing and prior to shutdown, a gas turbine engine should be run at "ground idle" for a short period. This allows:
cool oil flushing of bearings, particularly those in the turbines.
the turbine blade temperature to reduce only.
the engine to be compressor washed.
the core temperature to diminish. (Correct) 
Q833/934
Vibration sensors are used in a gas turbine engine to indicate:
bearing problems only.
imbalance of one or both of the spools. (Correct)
that there is too much free movement of the engine strut (pylon).
that tip clearance of turbine blades has decreased below a minimum value. 
Q834/934
Which statement is correct for a gas turbine engine with a constant speed propeller and free power turbine, when the power setting is increased?
The HP spool speed decreases.
The EGT increases.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. (Correct)

is correct, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect. 
Q835/934
One of the causes of high oil temperature in a gas turbine engine at constant power setting is:
high oil pressure.
malfunction of the heat exchanger. (Correct)
unusually high scavenge pump oil flow.
high outside air temperature. 
836/934
If a twin-spool gas turbine engine is controlled by a conventional N2 control system, rupture of the LP shaft may result in:
overspeed of the LP turbine. (Correct)
N2 and EPR increase.
N1 and N2 increase.
N1 decrease and EPR increase. 
Q837/934
Increasing the power setting of a gas turbine engine with a constant speed propeller and free power turbine causes:
HP spool speed to remain constant and EGT to increase.
both HP spool speed and EGT to increase. (Correct)
HP spool speed to increase and EGT to remain constant.
HP spool speed to decrease and EGT to increase. 
838/934
A pressure relief valve in an oil system that does not seat correctly would result in:
high oil pressure.
excessive oil consumption.
low oil pressure. (Correct)
low oil temperature. 
Q839/934
Which statement is correct for a gas turbine engine with a constant speed propeller and free power turbine, when the power setting is increased?
The gas generator speed increases.
The EGT increases.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.
1) is correct, 2) is correct. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
Q840/934
When a turbo-prop aeroplane decelerates during the initial part of the landing roll, a constant speed propeller within the beta range:
produces zero thrust.
is feathered.
produces negative thrust. (Correct)
produces positive thrust. 
Q841/934
The most important oil system instrument indication during gas turbine engine start is:
oil pressure. (Correct)
oil temperature.
oil filter clogged warning signal.
oil quantity. 
842/934
Which statement is correct for a gas turbine engine with a constant speed propeller and free power turbine, when the power setting is increased?
The gas generator speed decreases.
The EGT remains constant.
1) is incorrect. 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is correct. 
Q843/934
Which statement is correct for a gas turbine engine with a constant speed propeller and free power turbine, when the power setting is increased?
The HP spool speed increases.
The EGT remains constant.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is incorrect. 2) is correct.
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct) 
Q844/934
What is described by the term alpha range when talking about a turboprop?
Flight idle to maximum power. (Correct)
Ground idle to flight idle.
Maximum reverse to flight idle.
Ground idle to maximum power. 
Q845/934
If an abortive start (hung start) occurs when starting a gas turbine engine, the correct action is to:
activate both igniter systems.
move the thrust lever forward to increase fuel flow.
shut down the engine. (Correct)
select the other igniter system. 
846/934
Consider the variable-pitch propeller of a turbo-prop aircraft. During deceleration:
when braking, the propeller supplies negative thrust and absorbs engine power. (Correct)
at zero power, the propeller thrust is zero and the engine power absorbed is nil.
when feathered, the propeller produces thrust and absorbs no engine power.
with propeller windmilling, the thrust is zero and the propeller supplies engine power. 
Q847/934
If air is tapped from a gas turbine HP compressor (engine N2 controlled), the effect on the engine pressure ratio (EPR) and the exhaust gas temperature (EGT) is that:
EPR decreases and EGT remains constant.
both EPR and EGT decrease.
EPR remains constant and EGT increases.
EPR decreases and EGT increases. (Correct) 
848/934
A flat rated turbofan will be temperature limited if:
ambient pressure is lower than standard sea level ambient pressure.
OAT is lower than flat rated temperature.
ambient pressure is higher than standard sea level ambient pressure.
OAT is higher than flat rated temperature. (Correct) 
Q849/934
Regarding a jet engine:
The maximum thrust increases as the pressure altitude decreases.
The specific fuel consumption is proportional to pressure altitude, at constant TAS.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct. 2) is correct. 
850/934
At constant fuel flow, if engine compressor air is bled off for engine anti-icing or a similar system, the turbine temperature:
will be unchanged.
will rise. (Correct)
will fall.
may rise or fall depending on which stage of the compressor is used for the bleed and the RPM of the engine at the moment of selection. 
Q851/934
Bleeding air from the HP compressor of a turbofan, whilst maintaining thrust, increases:
N2 and fuel flow.
EGT and fuel flow. (Correct)
EGT and N1.
HP compressor discharge pressure and N2. 
Q852/934
Derated or reduced thrust take offs save engine life primarily due to:
reduced creep damage due to higher EGT levels during take- off.
the maximum oil temperature not being exceeded.
reduced low cycle fatigue damage. (Correct)
reduced corrosion of the HP turbine blades. 
Q853/934
Regarding a jet engine:
The maximum thrust decreases as the pressure altitude increases.
The specific fuel consumption is inversely proportional to pressure altitude, at constant TAS.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is correct.
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect. 
Q854/934
The take-off of a jet aeroplane may be performed with "reduced thrust" in order to:
reduce maintenance costs. (Correct)
reduce take-off noise.
save fuel.
reduce the risk of engine failure during take off. 
Based on the provided document, here is the complete list of questions, options, and identified correct answers as indicated by the green markings in the images.
Aircraft General Knowledge - Question Bank

Q 864 / 934 (N° 62697)
Flat rated jet engines are designed to provide constant maximum take-off thrust up to a certain level of:
ambient temperature. (Correct)
engine pressure ratio.
pressure altitude.
ambient pressure.

Q 865 / 934 (N° 92005)
A flat rated turbofan engine has a constant maximum rated thrust level:
above a specific pressure altitude.
up to a specific OAT. (Correct)
up to a specific pressure altitude.
above a specific OAT

Q 866 / 934 (N° 17352)
Consider a jet engine whose control is based on the engine pressure ratio (EPR):
with a constant EPR, the thrust decreases when the altitude increases.
with a constant EPR, the thrust is independent of the Mach number.
at same environmental conditions, a given EPR setting maintains the thrust irrespective of engine wear due to ageing.
the EPR is determined by the total pressure difference between the turbine outlet and the compressor inlet.
on take-off, in the event of icing not detected by the crew, the indicated EPR is lower than the real EPR.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
1, 5
1, 3 (Correct)
3, 4, 5
2, 3, 4

Q 867 / 934 (N° 20118)
Concerning the flexible take-off mode, the temperature selected in the FMS is:
lower than the ambient airfield temperature, in order to achieve an increased power setting.
higher than the ambient airfield temperature, in order to achieve an increased power setting.
lower than the ambient airfield temperature, in order to achieve a reduced power setting.
higher than the ambient airfield temperature, in order to achieve a reduced power setting. (Correct)

Q 868 / 934 (N° 11337)
The flexible take-off mode:
can be used only if the engines are new or recently overhauled.
reduces engine wear.
can be used in situations where take-off can be executed without the need for full engine power.
can only be used with an autothrottle.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
1, 2, 3
2, 3, 4
1, 4
2, 3 (Correct)

Q 869 / 934 (N° 74951)
On the ground, the Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) can provide:
electricity.
air for main engine starting.
hydraulic pressure.
air for air conditioning.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
1, 3, 4
1
1, 2, 4 (Correct)
1, 2, 3, 4

Q 870 / 934 (N° 87210)
A modern auxiliary power unit (APU) is designed to provide power for ground starting of an engine. It also supplies both in the air (subject of certification limitations) and on the ground:
air conditioning and electrical services. (Correct)
either air conditioning or electrical services, but never both at the same time.
air conditioning and thrust in the event of engine failure.
air conditioning and electrical services (on the ground) electrical and hydraulic back-up services (in the air).

Q 871 / 934 (N° 97158)
The Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) has its own AC generator which:
must have the same characteristics as the main AC generator so that it can be easily coupled with the latter.
is driven at constant speed through a Constant Speed Drive (CSD) in the same way as the main AC generator.
supplies the aircraft with three-phase 115 V, 400 Hz AC. (Correct)
is excited by its Generator Control Unit (GCU) as soon as the APU starts up.

Q 872 / 934 (N° 73756)
What would cause an APU to automatically shut-down?
High oil pressure
Low oil pressure
High EGT
Low APU speed
Overspeed
APU fire
The correct combination is:
1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6)
2), 3), 5), 5) [Note: Typo in original document for option 5 repeated] (Correct)
2), 3), 4), 5), 6)
2), 3), 4)

Q 873 / 934 (N° 16542)
Regarding detection systems, ion detectors are used to detect:
smoke. (Correct)
overtemperature.
overtemperature and fire.
fire.

Q 874 / 934 (N° 64927)
Smoke detector systems are installed in the:
upper cargo compartments (class E). (Correct)
engine nacelles.
wheel wells.
fuel tanks.

Q 875 / 934 (N° 25307)
Photoelectric cells:
are smoke detectors and detect the diffusion of a beam of light which occurs when the beam is interrupted by smoke. The scattering of the light increases the conductance of the cell and its output is amplified to operate a warning circuit. (Correct)
are visual smoke detectors which are only fitted as alarm verification devices.
are carbon-monoxide detectors which are found mainly in aircraft of American manufacture. These devices detect concentrations of CO and activate a warning system.
are alpha particle detectors and consist of ionisation chambers which measure alpha radiation from radium.

Q 876 / 934 (N° 54855)
Smoke detectors fitted on transport aircraft are of the following type:
electrical
magnetic
chemical
optical or ionization (Correct)

Q 877 / 934 (N° 46345)
How do smoke detectors operate?
A labyrinth optical detector - light refracts away from the photosensitive cell.
A light attenuation optical detector - light refracts towards the photosensitive cell. (Correct)
A labyrinth optical detector - the photosensitive cell is blocked from the light source by smoke.
A light attenuation optical detector light refracts away from the photosensitive cell.

Q 878 / 934 (N° 8224)
An engine fire detection system of a large multi-engine transport aircraft typically includes:
a warning light for each engine and a single aural alert common to all engines. (Correct)
one warning light and one aural alert common to all engines.
a warning light common to all engines but a separate aural alert for each engine.
both a warning light and an aural alert unique to each engine.

Q 879 / 934 (N° 87422)
A fault protection circuit in a fire detection system will:
automatically initiate APU shutdown and fire extinguisher striker activation in the event of fire.
inhibit the fire detector when the detection line is connected to ground. (Correct)
activate the fire detection system when the detection line is connected to ground.
activate an alarm in the cockpit and in the landing gear bay for ground crew.

Q 880 / 934 (N° 96653)
Explain the working principle of a gaseous fire detection system:
A closed tube, when heated, causes the gas inside to expand and trigger an alarm via a pressure switch. (Correct)
A closed tube consists of a gas which changes its translucence when heated. Light sensors will sense such change in translucence and trigger an alarm.
A closed tube, when heated, causes the gas inside to become a conductor and thereby closes an alarm circuit.
A closed tube, when heated, causes the gas inside to contract which causes a negative pressure and thereby trigger an alarm via a pressure switch.

Q 881 / 934 (N° 56653)
An engine fire in a large transport aircraft is indicated by a:
bell.
visual warning and an aural alert. (Correct)
aural alert only.
visual warning only.

Q 882 / 934 (N° 23457)
When a part of a continuous loop fire detection system is heated:
its resistance decreases.
its resistance increases.
the leakage current increases.
the leakage current decreases.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
1, 4
2, 4
2, 3
1, 3 (Correct)

Q 883 / 934 (N° 68699)
The most common extinguishing agent used in gas turbine engine fire protection system is:
halon (Correct)
water
$CO_{2}$
powder

Q 884 / 934 (N° 3163)
Halon is used as a fire extinguishing agent because it:
acts as a very effective flame inhibitor. (Correct)
is highly volatile.
is an electrical conductor.
uses the cooling effect created by the venturi during discharge.

Q 885 / 934 (N° 70133)
In a fire detection system with single-loop continuous components (with no fault protection), if the inner core contacts the outer casing:
the engine fire extinguisher striker is automatically activated
the fire alarm is triggered. (Correct)
the power supply is cut off automatically.
there will be no effect on the system.

Q 886 / 934 (N° 57020)
In a fire detection system with single loop continuous components, with no fault protection, the sensing element is crushed, but the inner core does not touch the outer casing:
The fire extinguisher is automatically activated.
The power supply is automatically cut off.
The fire alarm will be triggered.
There will be no effect. (Correct)

Q 887 / 934 (N° 54909)
In the event of an engine fire:
the fuel supply is disconnected by a quick release coupling.
an automatic shut-off valve is moved to the closed position controlled by the fire sensing system
the fuel supply is isolated from the engine by pilot action (a pilot controlled fuel shut-off valve) (Correct)
the fuel installation is protected by an automatic fire extinguishing system.

Q 888 / 934 (N° 26105)
When a continuous loop wire type fire detection system is tested:
the whole wire is heated.
the wiring and the warning are tested. (Correct)
the warning function is tested.
a part of the wire is heated.

Q 889 / 934 (N° 60367)
The bimetal strip detectors of an engine fire detection system:
are arranged in series
are arranged in parallel
open during a fire
close during a fire
The combination containing all of the correct statements is:
1 and 3 only.
2 and 3 only.
1 and 4 only.
2 and 4 only. (Correct)

Q 890 / 934 (N° 11494)
When a bimetallic strip is used as a switch in a fire detection loop, a delay is incorporated after a fire alarm is triggered in order to:
wait for the triggering of the second fire detection loop in order to confirm the fire.
delay the triggering of the fire extinguishers and increase their efficiency.
allow temperatures to equalize.
avoid false alarms in case of vibrations. (Correct)

Q 891 / 934 (N° 98394)
Generally, when the fire handle of the engine fire-extinguishing system on an aeroplane is pulled, the effects are:
opening of the bleed air valves and HP valves on the engine concerned.
arming of the extinguishing system.
immediate discharge of extinguishing agent.
deactivation of the electric generators.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
1, 4
1, 3
2, 3
2, 4 (Correct)

Q 892 / 934 (N° 77809)
A continuous loop detector system is a:
carbon dioxide warning system.
overheat detection system. (Correct)
fire fighting system.
smoke detection system.

Q 893 / 934 (N° 59242)
What is true when a fire loop detector detects low resistance and low capacity?
A test of the system is made.
The loop is faulty. (Correct)
At least one engine is on fire.
They are working normally.

Q 894 / 934 (N° 56132)
A gaseous fire loop system is tested by:
checking the sensor with external pressurised gas.
checking the continuity of the system.
checking the wiring harness for faults but not the sensor.
heating up the sensor. (Correct)

Q 895 / 934 (N° 67076)
Continuous loop fire detector systems operate on the principle that an increase in temperature produces:
an increase in resistance.
a decrease in resistance. (Correct)
a decrease in the reference current.
a decrease in pressure.

Q 896 / 934 (N° 94011)
Power plant fire extinguishers are operated by:
a mechanical link withdrawing a safety pin and allowing a spring operated plunger to rupture the bottle seal.
an electrically fired cartridge rupturing a seal in the head of the bottle. (Correct)
an electrically heated capsule rupturing a seal in the pipeline at the engine.
manual remote control opening a discharge valve.

Q 897 / 934 (N° 99502)
The correct statement about rain protection for cockpit windshields is that:
the electric de-icing system for cockpit windows is also suitable for rain protection.
rain repellent should never be sprayed onto the windshield unless the rainfall is very heavy. (Correct)
wipers are sufficient under heavy rain conditions to provide adequate view through the cockpit windows.
the alcohol de-icing system for cockpit windows is also suitable for rain protection.

Q 898 / 934 (N° 5599)
When a cabin oxygen mask is pulled downwards, the passenger breathes:
pure oxygen under pressure.
pure oxygen at the ambient pressure.
a mixture of oxygen and cabin air. (Correct)
cabin air under pressure.

Q 899 / 934 (N° 49486)
A diluter-demand oxygen regulator selected to 100%:
is only recommended for use with smoke in the cockpit.
delivers oxygen flow when inhaling (Correct)
delivers oxygen flow only above FL100.
mixes air and oxygen in a passenger oxygen mask.

Q 900 / 934 (N° 22443)
The opening of the doors giving access to the oxygen masks for the passengers is:
pneumatic for the gaseous oxygen system.
electrical for the chemical oxygen system.
pneumatic for the chemical oxygen system.
electrical for the gaseous oxygen system.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
1, 2 (Correct)
1, 3
2, 4
2, 3

Q 901 / 934 (N° 84938)
A pressurised aeroplane is flying at FL 370 and experiences a rapid decompression. Which of the following statements is correct about the oxygen system?
The oxygen masks are automatically presented to cabin crew members and passengers. (Correct)
The oxygen masks are automatically presented to flight crew members.
Manual override of the automatic presentation of passenger oxygen masks is, generally speaking, not possible.
If the automatic mask presentation has been activated, the oxygen will flow within the first 3 minutes.

Q 902 / 934 (N° 83904)
Concerning the oxygen system of a passenger airplane the following is true:
After activation the chemical oxygen generator can also be turned off.
Passengers must leave the toilet(s) immediately after a decompression because oxygen systems are not installed in toilets.
The chemical oxygen generator incorporates a heat shield. (Correct)
In case of a failure of the chemical oxygen generators, the pilot can activate the gaseous oxygen system for passengers.

Q 903 / 934 (N° 12683)
The chemical oxygen generator supplies oxygen for about:
15 minutes (Correct)
30 minutes
2 hours
5 minutes

Q 904 / 934 (N° 41720)
Chemical oxygen generators are used to furnish oxygen to the:
cockpit.
cabin.
toilets.
smoke hood.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
1, 2
2, 3, 4 (Correct)
1, 4
1, 3

Q 905 / 934 (N° 67158)
The type of an aircraft oxygen system intended for use by passengers is mostly:
a pressure demand system.
an air recycle system.
portable equipment only.
a continuous flow system (Correct)

Q 906 / 934 (N° 81590)
The installation and use of on-board oxygen generators is such that:
the smoking ban is imperative when used.
in case of accidental drop of the "continuous flow" passenger masks, no crew action is required.
no trace of grease must be found in the system assembly.
the system's filling adaptors must be greased with non-freezable or graphite grease.
The combination which regroups all of the correct statements is:
2, 4
1, 4
2, 3
1, 3 (Correct)

Q 907 / 934 (N° 23342)
The demand valve of a diluter-demand type oxygen regulator in normal mode, operates when the:
user breathes in. (Correct)
user requires 100% oxygen.
pressure in the oxygen reservoir is more than 500 psi.
diluter control is in normal position.

Q 908 / 934 (N° 1060)
Which of these statements about chemical oxygen generators are correct or incorrect?
Chemical oxygen generators are often used to supply passenger oxygen.
The oxygen supply of chemical oxygen generators, once activated, can be switched off.
1) is correct, 2) is incorrect. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is correct.

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.

Q 909 / 934 (N° 15877)
A pilot can determine the amount of oxygen in a portable bottle by observing its:
temperature.
volume.
pressure. (Correct)
level.

Q 910 / 934 (N° 57402)
Consider the flight deck oxygen supply system. The purpose of the oxygen regulator (as a function of demand and altitude) is to:
decrease oxygen pressure from 1800 psi (in the bottles) down to about 50-75 psi (low pressure system).
supply pure oxygen.
supply diluted oxygen.
supply oxygen at normal pressure.
supply oxygen at emergency/positive pressure.
trigger the continuous cabin altitude warning at 10000 ft cabin altitude.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
1, 3, 4, 6
1, 2, 3, 4
3, 4, 5, 6
2, 3, 4, 5 (Correct)

Q 911 / 934 (N° 13203)
A passenger oxygen mask is:
an on-demand type mask and must be used if there is smoke in the cabin.
a continuous flow mask and must be used if there is smoke in the cabin.
an on-demand type mask and in principle should not be used if there is smoke in the cabin.
a continuous flow mask and in principle should not be used if there is smoke in the cabin. (Correct)

Q 912 / 934 (N° 63212)
When selected to normal, the oxygen/air ratio of the mixture supplied by the cockpit oxygen system regulator:
increases when the altitude increases. (Correct)
is constant whatever the altitude.
is 100%.
decreases when the altitude increases.

Q 913 / 934 (N° 25163)
When the oxygen system of a large aeroplane is set to the diluted mode:
the cockpit crew breathes a mixture of oxygen/cabin air. (Correct)
the same circuit is used by the crew and the passengers.
the passenger circuit does not use the chemically generated oxygen.
the passengers are supplied with a mixture of oxygen and cabin air.

Q 914 / 934 (N° 25588)
The disadvantages of a chemical oxygen source compared with a gaseous one for the passenger cabin are:
a flow which cannot be modulated.
less capacity.
risk of fire and/or explosion.
The combination that regroups all the correct statements is:
3
1, 2 (Correct)
1, 3
2, 3

Q 915 / 934 (N° 99120)
When quick donning masks are in use, the pilot is:
only able to transmit.
not able to do any radio communication.
able to radiotelephone. (Correct)
only able to receive.

Q 916 / 934 (N° 85733)
In case of smoke in the cockpit, the crew oxygen regulator must be set to:
100% (Correct)
normal
emergency
on demand

Q 917 / 934 (N° 89004)
A smoke hood is a device covering:
only the nose and the mouth and with a continuous oxygen flow.
the whole head and with a continuous oxygen flow. (Correct)
the whole head and with an oxygen flow only on demand.
only the nose and the mouth and with an oxygen/air mix.

Q 918 / 934 (N° 56687)
The advantages of a chemical oxygen source for the passenger cabin are:
reduced weight and volume.
easy storage.
greater autonomy.
less risk of explosion.
reversible functioning.
no maintenance required.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
1, 2, 3, 6
1, 2, 4, 6 (Correct)
2, 3, 4, 5
1, 4, 6

Q 919 / 934 (N° 22649)
The replenishment of an onboard oxygen bottle must be done:
with a ground power unit connected, electrical power supplied.
with the engine(s) off. (Correct)
with the engine(s) on.
with the engine(s) at idle.

Q 920 / 934 (N° 20847)
An oxygen supply system must be kept absolutely free of oil or grease as:
these substances catch fire spontaneously in the presence of oxygen. (Correct)
the oxygen system would be contaminated.
these substances could plug the oxygen masks filters.
these substances mixed with oxygen could catch fire in the presence of a spark.

Q 921 / 934 (N° 2467)
The built-in passenger oxygen system can be activated by:
switching the diluter-demand regulator ON.
switching the passenger oxygen ON. (Correct)
switching the diluter-demand regulator and the passenger oxygen ON.
opening the oxygen-bottle valves.

Q 922 / 934 (N° 10944)
Which of these statements about chemical oxygen generators are correct or incorrect?
Chemical oxygen generators are used to supply the cockpit oxygen system.
The oxygen supply of chemical oxygen generators, once activated, cannot be switched off.
1) is incorrect, 2) is correct. (Correct)

is incorrect, 2) is incorrect.

is correct, 2) is correct.

is correct, 2) is incorrect.

Q 923 / 934 (N° 79660)
The disadvantages of a chemical oxygen source for the passenger cabin are:
a flow which cannot be modulated.
a heavy and bulky system.
non reversible functioning.
risks of explosion.
poor autonomy.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
1, 3, 5 (Correct)
1, 2, 3, 4, 5
1, 2, 3, 5
2, 4

Q 924 / 934 (N° 9428)
Regarding the oxygen system of EASA CS-25 certified aeroplane:
the same source of supply is used by the crew and passengers.
the seals must be carefully greased to avoid sparks.
the passenger source of supply never uses chemically generated oxygen.
with the setting on "NORMAL", the cockpit crew breathes a mixture of oxygen and cabin air. (Correct)

Q 925 / 934 (N° 17960)
Modern pressurized transport airplanes are equipped with:
only one oxygen system supplying the whole aircraft.
two independent oxygen systems, one supplying the cockpit, the other the cabin. (Correct)
only portable oxygen bottles.
two oxygen systems both supplying the cockpit and the cabin.

Q 926 / 934 (N° 24624)
If the maximum operating pressure of the oxygen system is exceeded the:
passenger oxygen masks will drop down.
oxygen bottles will explode.
oxygen becomes unusable for the passengers.
oxygen is discharged overboard via a safety plug. (Correct)

Q 927 / 934 (N° 7852)
A substance which may never be used in the vicinity or on parts of an oxygen installation is:
halon
grease (Correct)
water
nitrogen

Q 928 / 934 (N° 67863)
The advantages of a gaseous oxygen source compared with a chemical source for the passenger cabin are:
no risk of fire and/or explosion.
possibility to regulate flow.
more capacity.
The combination that regroups all the correct statements is:
2
1
2, 3 (Correct)
1, 2

Q 929 / 934 (N° 87088)
In modern jet transport aeroplanes, oxygen for the flight deck oxygen system is typically stored:
in a gaseous state. (Correct)
as a chemical compound.
in a gaseous state or as a chemical compound.
in a liquid state.

Q 930 / 934 (N° 22949)
The advantages of a chemical oxygen source compared with a gaseous one for the passenger cabin are:
easier maintenance.
greater capacity.
reduced risk of explosion.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
2, 3
1, 3 (Correct)
1, 2
1, 2, 3

Q 931 / 934 (N° 31344)
The advantages of a gaseous oxygen source for the passenger cabin are:
a greater autonomy.
no risk of explosion.
reversible functioning.
easy storage and maintenance.
possibility to regulate flow.
The combination regrouping all the correct statements is:
2, 4, 5
1, 2, 3, 4, 5
2, 3, 4
1, 3, 5 (Correct)

Q 932 / 934 (N° 25335)
Regarding the chemical oxygen generator, to enable the oxygen to flow, the passenger must:
turn the oxygen valve to open.
firmly pull the door compartment of the oxygen mask storage.
operate the relevant switch in his armrest.
firmly pull the mask towards his face. (Correct)

Q 933 / 934 (N° 29277)
Fixed oxygen systems in pressurised aeroplanes are used to provide oxygen:
in the event of depressurisation.
in the event of any passenger indisposition.
during a normal flight.
in the event of smoke or toxic fumes in the cockpit.
The combination that regroups all of the correct statements is:
1, 2, 4
2, 3
1, 4 (Correct)
3

Q 934 / 934 (N° 11869)
A public transport aircraft is cruising at FL390. It is fitted with individual oxygen masks for the passengers. In the event of cabin depressurization, the passenger oxygen masks must be automatically released before the cabin pressure altitude exceeds:
15,000 ft (Correct)
10,000 ft
14,000 ft
13,000 ft



